"The Pitch’ng the first Wicket is to be determined by the
Toss of a Piece of Money. When the first Wicket is pitch'd,
and the Popping-Crease cut, which must be exactly Three Feet
Ten Inches from the Wicket, the other Wicket is to be pitch’d
directly opposite, at Twenty-Two Yards Distance, and the
other Popping-Crease cut Three Feet and Ten Inches before it.
The Bowling-Creases must be cut in a direct Line from
each Stump.
The Stumps must be Twenty-Two Inches long, and the
Bail Six Inches.
The Ball must weigh between Five & Six Ounces.
When the Wickets are both pitch’d, and all the Creases
cut, the Party that wins the Toss-up, may order which Side
shall go inn first, at his Option.

LAWS FOR THE BOWLERS.
Four Balls and Over.
The Bowler must deliver the Ball, with one Foot behind
the Crease, even with the Wicket; and when he has bowl’d one
Ball, or more, shall bowl to the Number of Four before he
changes wickets, and he shall change but once in the same
Innings.
He may order the Player that is inn at his Wicket, to
stand on which Side of it he pleases, at a reasonable Distance.
If he delivers the Ball, with his hinder Foot over the
Bowling-Crease, the Umpire shall call no Ball, tho’ it be
struck, or the Player be bowl’d out; which he shall do without
being ask’d, and no Person shall have any Right to question
him.

- 2 -

LAWS FOR THE STRIKERS,
or
THOSE that are INN.
If the Wicket is bowl’d down, it’s out.
If he strikes, or treads down, or falls himself upon
his Wicket in striking (but not in over-running) it’s out.
A Stroke, or Nip, over or under his Bat, or upon his Hands
(but not Arms) if the Ball be held before it touches the
Ground, though it be hugg’d to the Body, it’s out.
If in striking, both his Feet are over the Popping-
Crease, and his Wicket put down, except his Bat is down
within, it’s out.
If he runs out of his Ground to hinder a Catch, it’s
out.
If a Ball is nipp’d up, and he strikes it again wilfully,
before it came to the Wicket, it’s out.
If the Players have cross’d each other, he that runs for
the Wicket that is put down, is out: If they are not crossed,
he that returns is out.
If in running a Notch, the Wicket is struck down by a
Throw, before his Foot, Hand, or Bat is over the Popping-
Crease, or a Stump hit by the Ball, though the Bail was down,
it’s out.
But if the Bail is down before, he that catches the
Ball must strike a Stump out of the Ground, Ball in Hand, or
else it’s not out.
If the Striker touches, or takes up the Ball before it
has lain quite still, unless ask’d by the Bowler, or Wicket-
Keeper, it’s out.

BAT, FOOT or HAND, over the CREASE.
When the Ball has been in Hand by one of the Keepers,
or Stoppers, and the Player has been at Home, he may go where
he pleases till the next Ball is bowl’d.
If either of the Strikers is crossed, in his running
Ground, designedly, the same must be determined by the Umpires.

N.B. The Umpires may order that Notch to be scored.
When the Ball is hit up, either of the Strikers may
hinder the Catch in his running Ground; or if it is nit
directly across the Wickets, the other player may place his
Body aJwhere within the Swing of the Bat so as to hinder
tilt? Bowler froui cs-tcliing itj but lie must neither strike st it>
nor touch it with his Hands.
If a Striker nips a Ball up just before him, he may
fall before his Wicket, or pop down his Bat, before it comes
to the Wicket, to save it.
The Bail hanging on one Stump, though the Ball hit the
Wicket, it’s not out.

L A W S
for the
WICKET-KEEPERS.
THE Wicket-Keepers shall stand at a reasonable Distance
behind the Wicket, and shall not move till the Ball is out
of the Bowler’s Hand, and shall not, by any Noise, incommode
the Striker; and if his Hands, Knees, Foot, or Head, be over,
or before the Wicket, though the Ball hit it, it shall not
be out

LAWS
for the
UMPIRES.
To allow Two Minutes for each Man to come inn when
one is out, and Ten Minutes between each Hand.
To mark the Ball that it may not be changed.
They are sole Judges of all Outs and Inns: of all fair
or unfair Play; of all frivolous Delays; of all Hurts, whether
real or pretended, and are discretionaliy to allow what Time
they think proper before the Game goes on again.
In case of a real Hurt to a Striker, they are to allow
another to come inn, and the Person hurt to come inn again;
but are not to allow a fresh Man to play, on either Side, on
any Account.
They are sole Judges of all Hindrances; crossing the
Players in running, and standing unfair to strike, and in Case
of Hindrance may order a Notch to be scor’d.
They are not to order any Man out, unless appealed to
by one of the Players.

These Laws are to the Umpires jointly.
___ Each Umpire is the sole Judge of all Nips and Catches;
—Inns and Outs; good or bad Runs, at his own Wicket, and
This Determination shall be absolute; and he shall not be chanped

- 4 - .

for another Umpire, without the Consent of both Sides.
When the four Balls are bowl’d, he is to call over.
These Laws are separately.
When both Umpires call Play three Times, 'tis at the
Peril of giving the Game from them that refuse to play.
