THE BALL must weigh not less than five Ounces and a half,
nor more than five Ounces and three quarters; it cannot be
changed during the Game, but by the consent of both Parties.

THE BAT
must not exceed four Inches and one quarter, in the widest
part.

THE STUMPS
must be twenty-two Inches out of the Ground, the Bail
six Inches, in length.

THE BOWLING CREASE
must be in a line with the Stumps, three feet in length,
with a Return Crease.
-2-

THE POPPING CREASE
must be three Feet ten Inches from the Wicket, and parallel
to it.

THE WICKETS
must be opposite to each other, at the distance of twenty-
two yards.

THE PARTY WHICH GOES FROM HOME
shall have the choice of the Innings, and the pitching of
the Wickets, which shall be pitched within thirty yards of
a center fixed by the Adversaries.

When the Parties meet at a third place, the Bowlers
shall toss-up for the pitching of the Wickets, and the
choice of going in.

It shall not be lawful for either Party during a Match
without the consent of the other to alter the Ground, by
rolling, watering, covering, mowing, or beating; this rule
is not meant to prevent a Striker from beating the ground
with his Bat near where he stands during the Innings, or
to prevent the Bowler from filling up holes, watering his
ground, or using Sawdust, &c. when the ground is wet.

THE BOWLER
shall deliver the Ball with one foot behind the Bowling Crease,
and within the Return Crease and shall bowl four Balls before
he changes Wickets, which he shall do but once in the same
innings.

He may order the Striker, at his Wicket, to stand on
which side of it he pleases.

THE STRIKER IS OUT
if the Bail is bowled off, or the Stump bowled out of the
ground.

Or, if the Ball, from a stroke over or under his Bat,
or upon his hand, (but not wrists) is held before it
touches the ground, although it be hugged to the body of
the Catcher.

Or, if in striking, or at any other time while the
Ball is in play, both his feet are over the Popping Crease
and his Wicket put down, except his Bat is grounded within
it.
-3-

Or if in striking at the Ball he hits down his
Wickets.

Or, if under pretence of running a Notch, or otherwise,
either of the Strikers prevent a Ball from being caught, the
Striker of the Ball is out.

Or, if the Ball is struck up, and he wilfully strikes
it again.

Or, if running a Notch the Wicket is struck down by a
throw, or with the Ball in hand, before his foot, hand, or
bat, is grounded over the Popping Crease. But if the
Bail is off, the Stump must be struck out of the ground.

Or, if the Striker touches or takes up the Ball while
in play, unless at the request of the opposite Party.

If with his foot or leg he stops the Ball, which the
Bowler in the opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s Wicket
shall have pitched in straight line to the Wicket, and would
have hit it.

If the Players have crossed each other, he that runs
for the Wicket which is put down, is out; if they are not
crossed, he that has left the Wicket which is put down is
out.

When a Ball is caught, no Notch to be reckoned.

When a Striker is run out, the Notch they were running
for is not to be reckoned.

When the Ball has been in the Bowler’s or Wicket-
keepers hands, it is considered as no longer in Play, and
the Strikers need not keep within their ground till the
Umpire has called Play; but if the Player goes out of his
ground with an intent to run before the Ball is delivered,
the Bowler may put him out.

If the Ball is struck up, the Striker may guard his
Wicket either with his Bat or his Body.

In single Wicket Matches, if the Striker moves out of
his ground to strike at the Ball, he shall be allowed no
Notch for such stroke.

THE WICKET KEEPER
shall stand at a reasonable distance behind the Wicket, and
shall not move till the Ball is out of the Bowler’s hand,
and shall not by any noise incommode the Striker; and if
his hands, knees, feet, or head, be over or before the
Wicket, though the Ball hit it, it shall not be out.

THE UMPIRES
are the sole judges of fair and unfair play, and all disputes
shall be determined by them; each at his own Wicket. But
in case of a Catch, which the Umpire at the Wicket cannot see
sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply to the other
Umpire whose opinion is conclusive.
-4-

They shall allow two minutes for each man to come in,
and fifteen minutes between each Innings; when the Umpire
shall call Play, the party refusing to play, shall lose the
Match.

When a Striker is hurt, they are to permit another to
come in, and the person hurt shall have his hands in any
part of the Innings.

They are not to order a Player out, unless appealed
to by the Adversaries.

But, if the Bowler’s foot is not behind the Bowling
Crease and within the Return Crease, when he delivers the
Ball, they must, unasked, call No Ball.

If the Striker runs a short Notch, the Umpire must call
No Notch.

That the Umpire at the Bowler’s Wicket shall be first
applied to decide on all Catches.

BETS.
If the Notches of one Player are laid against another,
the Bets depend on the first Innings, unless otherwise
specified.

If the Bets are made upon both Innings, and one party
beat the other in one Innings, the Notches in the first
Innings shall determine the Bet.

But if the other Party goes in a second time, then
the Bets must be determined by the number on the Score.
