THE BALL must weigh not less than Five Ounces and a Half, nor more than Five Ounces and Three Quarters. At the beginning of each Innings either Party may call for a new Ball.

THE BAT must not exceed Four Inches and One Quarter, in the widest part.

THE STUMPS must be Twenty-six Inches out of the ground, the Bails Seven Inches in length.

THE BOWLING CREASE must be in a line with the Stumps, Three Feet in length, with a RETURN CREASE.

THE POPPING CREASE must be Four Feet from the Wicket, and parallel to it.

The wickets must be opposite to each other, at the distance of Twenty-two Yards: which shall be pitched within Thirty Yards of a centre fixed by the Adversaries.

It shall not be lawful for either Party during a match, without the consent of the other, to alter the Ground, by watering, covering, mowing, or beating: this rule is to prevent the Striker from beating the Ground with his Bat, where he stands during the Innings, or to prevent the Bowler from filling up holes, watering his ground, or using sawdust, &c. when the ground is wet.

THE BOWLER shall deliver the Ball with one foot behind the Bowling Crease and within the Return Crease, and shall bowl Four Balls before he changes wickets, which he shall do but once in the same Innings.

The Ball must be bowled (not thrown or jerked), and delivered, underhand, with the Hand below the Elbow. But if the Ball be jerked, or the arm extended from the body Horizontally, and any part of the back of the hand be uppermost, or the hand horizontally extended the Umpire shall call "No Ball." He may order the Striker, at his wicket, to stand on which side of it he pleases.

If the Bowler tosses the Ball over the Striker’s head, or bowls it so wide that the Striker cannot play at it, the Party that is in shall be allowed One Notch, to be put down to the Byes, and those Balls not to be reckoned as any of the Four Balls.

If the Bowler bowls a No Ball, the Striker may play at it, and be allowed all the Runs he can get, and shall not be put out, except by running out.

In the event of a change of Bowling, no more than Two Balls to be allowed in practice.

The Bowler who takes the Two Balls, to be obliged to bowl Four Balls.

THE STRIKER IS OUT if the Bail is bowled off, or the Stump bowled out of the ground.

Or, if the Ball, from a stroke over or under the Bat, or on his hand (but not wrists), is held before it touches the ground, although it be hugged to the body of the Catcher.

Or, if in striking or at any other time while the Ball is in play, both his feet are over the Popping Crease and his Wicket put down, except his Bat is grounded within it.

Or, if in striking at the Ball he hits down his Wicket.

Or, if under pretence of running a Notch, or otherwise, either of the strikers prevent a Ball from being caught, the striker of the Ball is out.

Or, if the Ball is struck up, and he wilfully strikes it again.

Or, if in running a Notch, the Wicket is struck down by a throw, or with the Ball in Hand, before his Foot, Hand, or Bat is grounded over the Popping Crease. But, if the Bail is off, the Stump must be struck out of the ground.

Or, if any part of the Striker’s dress knocks down the Wicket.

Or, if the Striker touches or takes up the Ball while in play, unless at the request of the other Party.

If with his foot or leg he stops the Ball, which the Bowler in the opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s Wicket shall pitch in a straight line to the Wicket, and would have hit it.

If the Players have crossed each other, he that runs for the Wicket which is put down, is out; if they are not crossed, he that has left the Wicket which is put down, is out.

When a Ball is caught, no Notch to be reckoned.

When a Striker is run out, the Notch they were running for is not to be reckoned.

If a lost Ball is called, the Striker shall be allowed Four; but if more than Four are run before lost Ball is called, then the Striker to have all they have run.

When the Ball has been in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s hands, it is considered as no longer in play; and the Strikers need not keep within their ground till the Umpire has called "Play"; But if the player goes out of his ground with an intent to run before the Ball is delivered, the Bowler may put him out.

If the Striker is hurt, he may retire from his Wicket, and have his Innings at any time in that Innings.

If a Striker is hurt, some other Person may be allowed to stand out for him, but not go in.

If any Person stops the Ball with his Hat, the Ball is to be considered as dead, and the opposite Party to add Five Notches to their Score; if any are run, they are to have Five in all.

If the Ball is struck up, the Striker may guard his Wicket either with his Bat or his Body.

In SINGLE-WICKET MATCHES, if the Striker moves out of his ground to strike at the Ball, he shall be allowed no Notch for such Stroke.

THE WICKET KEEPERS shall stand at a reasonable distance behind the Wicket, and shall not move till the Ball is out of the Bowler’s hand, and shall not by any noise incommode the Striker; and if his hands, knees feet, or head, be over or before the Wicket, though the Ball hit it, it shall not be out.

THE UMPIRES are the sole judges of fair and unfair play, and all Disputes shall be determined by them, each at his own Wicket; but in case of a Catch, which the Umpire at the Wicket cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply to the other Umpire, whose opinion is conclusive.

The Umpires, in all Matches, to pitch fair Wickets, and the Parties to toss for the choice of innings.

They shall allow Two Minutes for each man to come in, and Fifteen Minutes between each Innings; when the Umpire shall call "Play," the Party refusing to play shall lose the Match.

They are not to order a Player out, unless appealed to by the Adversaries.

But, if the Bowler’s Foot, is not behind the Bowling Crease, and within the Return Crease, when he delivers the Ball, they must, unasked, call "No Ball."

If the Striker runs a Short Notch, the Umpire must call "No Notch."

That the Umpire at the Bowler's Wicket shall be first applied to, to decide on all Catches.

The Umpires are not to be changed during the Match, but by the consent of both Parties.

BETS.

If the Notches of one Player are laid against another, the Bets depend on the First Innings, unless otherwise specified.

If the Bets are made upon both Innings, and one Party beats the other in One Innings, the Notches in the First Innings shall determine the Bet.

But if the other Party goes in a second time, then the Bet must be determined by the number on the Score.
