The Ball
1. Must not weigh less than five ounces and a half
nor more than five ounces and three quarters.
It must measure not less than nine inches, nor
more than nine inches and one quarter in cir-
cumference. At the beginning of each innings
either party may call for a new ball.

The Bat
2. Must not exceed four inches and one quarter in the
widest part; it must not be more than thirty-
eight inches in length.

The Stumps
3. Must be three in number, twenty-seven inches out
of the ground, the bails eight inches in length;
the stumps of equal and of sufficient thickness
to prevent the ball from passing through.

The Bowling Crease
4. Must be in a line with the stumps; six feet eight
inches in length, the stumps in the centre; with
a return crease at each end towards the bowler
at right angles.

The Popping Crease
5. Must be four feet from the wicket, and paralleled
to it; unlimited in length, but not shorter than
the bowling crease.

The Wickets
6. Must be pitched opposite to each other by the
umpires at the distance of twenty-two yards.

7. It shall not be lawful for either party during a
match, without the consent of the other, to alter
the ground by rolling, watering, covering, mow-
ing or beating. This rule is not meant to
prevent the striker from beating the ground
with his bat near to the spot where he stands
during the innings, nor to prevent the bowler
from filling up holes with saw dust, &c. when
the ground shall be wet.

8. After rain the wickets may be changed with the
consent of both parties.

The Bowler
9. Shall deliver the ball with one foot on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within
the return crease, and shall bowl four balls
before he change wickets: which he shall be
permitted to do once only in the same inn-
ings.

10. The ball must be bowled, not thrown or jerked,
and the hand must not be above the shoulder
in delivery; and whenever the bowler shall so
closely infringe on this rule in either of the
above particulars, as to make it difficult for the
umpire at the bowler’s wicket to judge whether
the ball has been delivered within the true
intent and meaning of this rule or not, the
umpire shall call “No Ball.”

11. He may require the striker at the wicket from
which he is bowling to stand on that side of
it which he may direct.

12. If the bowler shall toss the ball over the striker’s
head, or bowl it so wide that in the opinion of
the umpire it shall not be fairly within the
reach of the batsman, he shall adjudge one run
to the parties receiving the innings, either with
or without an appeal, which shall be put down
to the score of wide balls; such ball shall not
be reckoned as one of the four balls; but if
the batsman shall by any means bring himself
within reach of the ball the run shall not be
adjudged.

13. If the bowler deliver a “No Ball” or a "Wide
Ball,” the striker shall be allowed as many runs
as he can get, and he shall not be put out
except by running out. In the event of no
run being obtained by any other means, then
one run shall be added to the score, of “No
Balls” or “Wide Balls” as the case may be.
All runs obtained for “Wide Balls” to be
scored to “Wide Balls.” The names of the
bowlers who bowl “Wide Balls,” or “No
Balls,” in future to be placed on the score to
show the parties by whom either score is made.

14. At the beginning of each innings the umpire
shall call “Play,” from that time to the end of
each innings, no trial ball shall be allowed to
any bowler.

The Striker is Out
15. If either of the bails be bowled off, or if a stump
be bowled out of the ground.

16. Or, if the ball from the stroke of the bat, or
hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touch
the ground, although it be hugged to the body
of the catcher.

17. Or, if in striking, or at any other time while the
ball shall be in play, both his feet shall be over
the popping crease, and his wicket put down,
except his bat be grounded within it.

18. Or, if in striking at the ball he hit down his
wicket.

19. Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise
either of the strikers prevent a ball from
being caught the striker of the ball is out.

20. Or, if the ball be struck and he wilfully strike
it again.

21. Or, if in running the wicket be struck down by
a throw, or by the hand or arm, (with ball in
hand) before his bat (in hand) or some part of
his person be grounded over the popping
crease. But if both the bails be off, a stump
must be struck out of the ground.

22. Or, if any part of the striker's dress knock down
the wicket.

23. Or, if the striker touch, or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of the
opposite party.

24. Or, if with any part of his person he stop the
ball which in the opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket shall have been pitched in a
straight line from it to the striker's wicket,
and would have hit it.

25. If the players have crossed each other, he that
runs for the wicket which is put down is out.

26. A ball being caught no run shall be reckoned.

27. A striker being run out, that run which he and
his partner were attempting shall not be
reckoned.

28. If a lost ball be called, the striker shall be
allowed six runs; but if more than six shall
have been run before lost ball shall have been
called, then the striker shall have all which
have been run.

29. After the ball shall have been finally settled in
the wicket keepers or bowler’s hand, it shall
be considered dead: but when the bowler is
about to deliver the ball, if the striker at his
wicket go outside the popping crease before
such actual delivery, the said bowler may
put him out, unless (with reference to the
21st law,) his bat in hand, or some part of his
person be within the popping crease.

30. If the striker be hurt he may retire from his
wicket, and return to it any time during that
innings.

31. If the striker be hurt, some other person may
stand out for him, but not go in.

32. No substitute in the field shall be allowed to
bowl, keep wicket, stand at the point, cover
the point, or stop behind in any case.

33. If any fieldsman stop the ball with his hat, the
ball shall be considered dead, and the opposite
party shall add five runs to their score; if any
be run, they shall have five in all.

34. The ball having been hit, the striker may guard
his wicket with his bat, or with any part of his
body except his hands; that the twenty-third
law may not be disobeyed.

35. The wicket keeper shall not take the ball for the
purpose of stumping, until it have passed the
wicket; he shall not move till the ball be out
of the bowler’s hand: he shall not by any
noise incommode the striker; and if any part
of his person be over or before the wicket,
although the ball hit it, the striker shall not be
out.

36. The umpires are sole judges of fair or unfair
play; and all disputes shall be determined by
them, each at his own wicket; but in case of
a catch which the umpire at the wicket bowled
from, cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he
may apply to the other umpire; whose opinion
shall be conclusive.

37. The umpires in all matches shall pitch fair
wickets, and the parties shall toss up for the
choice of innings. The umpires shall change
wickets, after each party has had one innings.

38. They shall allow two minutes for each striker
to come in, and ten minutes between each
innings. When the umpire shall call “Play,”
the party refusing to play shall lose the match.

39. They are not to order a striker out unless ap-
pealed to by the adversaries.

40. But if one of the bowler’s feet be not on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within
the return crease when he shall deliver the
ball, the umpire at his wicket unasked must
call “No Ball.”

41. If either of the strikers run a short run, the
umpire must call “One Short.”

42. No umpire shall be allowed to bet.

43. No umpire is to be changed during a match,
unless with the consent of both parties, except
in case of a violation of the 42nd law; then
either party may dismiss the transgressor.

44. After the delivery of four balls, the umpire
must call “Over,” but not until the ball shall
be finally settled in the wicket keepers, or
bowler's hand; the ball shall then be con-
sidered dead; nevertheless if an idea be
entertained that either of the strikers is out, a
question may be put previously to, but not
after the delivery of the next ball.

45. The umpire must take especial care to call “No
Ball instantly upon delivery, “Wide Ball”
as soon as ever it shall pass the striker.

46. The players who go in second shall follow their
innings, if they have obtained one hundred runs
less than their antagonist.

47. When one of the strikers shall have been put
out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to
any person, until the next striker shall come in.

Laws for Single Wicket.
1. When there shall be less than five players on a side, bounds shall be
placed twenty-two
yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.

2. The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the striker to
a run; which run cannot be
obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with it
with his bat, or some part of
his person, or go beyond them; returning to the popping crease as at
double wicket, according to
the 22nd law.

3. When the striker shall hit the ball one of his feet must be on
the ground, and behind the
popping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “No Hit.”

4. When there shall be less than five players on a side neither byes
nor overthrows shall be
allowed; nor shall the striker be caught out behind wicket, nor
stumped out.

5. The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the
play between the wicket, & the
bowling stump, or between the bowling stump, and the bounds; the
striker may run till the ball
be so returned.

6. After the striker shall have made one run, if he start again he
must touch the bowling
stump, and turn before the ball shall cross the play to entitle him to
another.

7. The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and
the same number for ball stopped
with hat; with reference to the 29th & 34th law of double wicket.

8. When there shall be more than four players on a side there shall
be no bounds. All hits;
byes, and overthrows shall then be allowed.

9. The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double wicket.

10. Not more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.

Bets
1. No bet is payable on any match unless it be played out, or given up.

2. If the runs of one player be betted against those of another the bet
depends on the first
innings, unless otherwise specified.

3. If the bet be made upon both innings, and one party beat the
other in one innings the runs
in the first innings shall determine it.

4. If the other party go in a second time then the bet must be
determined by the number on
the score.
