DOUBLE WICKET.
There are two games of cricket, one of which is
called Single Wicket, and the other Double Wicket.
Both of these require the same materials, viz., a
bat, or bats, stumps and bails, and a ball, all of
which are defined in size by the rules of cricket,
which are now generally, and almost universally,
those revised by the Marylebone Club, as follows:—
1. The ball must weigh not less than five ounces
and a-half, nor more than five ounces and three-
quarters. It must measure not less than nine
inches, nor more than nine and a-quarter inches
in circumference. At the beginning of each
innings either party may call for a new ball.
2. The bat must not exceed four and a-quarter
inches in the widest part; it must not be more than
thirty-eight inches in length.
3. The stumps must be three in number; twenty-
seven inches out of the ground; the bails eight
inches in length; the stumps of equal, and of sufficient
thickness to prevent the ball from passing through.
4. The bowling-crease must be in a line with the
stumps; six feet eight inches in length; the stumps
in the centre; with a return crease at each end to-
wards the bowler, at right angles.
5. The popping-crease must be four feet from
the wicket, and parallel to it, unlimited in length,
but not shorter than the bowling-crease.
6. The wickets must be pitched opposite to each
other by the umpires, at the distance of twenty-
two yards.
7. It shall not be lawful for either party during
a match without the consent of the other, to alter
the ground by rolling, watering, covering, mowing,
or beating, except at the commencement of each
innings, when the ground may be swept and rolled
at the request of either party, such request to be
made to one of the umpires within one minute after
the conclusion of the former innings. This rule is
not meant to prevent the striker from beating the
ground with his bat near to the spot where he
stands during the innings, nor to prevent the bow-
ler from filling up holes with sawdust, &c., when
the ground is wet.
8. After rain the wickets may be changed with
the consent of both parties.
9. The bowler shall deliver the ball with one
foot on the ground behind the bowling-crease, and
within the return-crease, and shall bowl four balls
before he change wickets, which he shall be per-
mitted to do only once in the same innings.
10. The ball must be bowled, not thrown or
jerked, and the hand must not be above the shoulder
in delivery; and whenever the bowler shall so closely
infringe on this rule in either of the above particulars
as to make it difficult for the umpire at the bowler’s
wicket to judge whether the ball has been delivered
within the true intent and meaning of this rule or
not, the umpire shall call “no ball.”
11. He may require the striker at the wicket
from which he is bowling, to stand on that side of
it which he may direct.
12. If the bowler shall toss the ball over the
striker’s head, or bowl it so wide that in the opinion
of the umpire it shall not be fairly within the
reach of the batsman, he shall adjudge one run to the
party receiving the innings, either with or without
an appeal, which shall be put down to the score of
wide balls; such ball shall not be reckoned as one
of the four balls; but if the batsman shall by any
means bring himself within reach of the ball, the
run shall not be adjudged.
13. If the bowler deliver a “no ball,” or a “wide
ball,” the striker shall be allowed as many runs as
he can get, and he shall not be put out except by
running out. In the event of no run being obtained
by any other means, then one run shall be added
to the score of “no balls” or “wide balls,” as the
case may be. All runs obtained for “wide balls”
to be scored to “wide balls.” The names of the
bowlers who bowl “wide balls” or “no balls,” in
future to be placed on the score, to show the parties
by whom either score is made. If the ball shall
first touch any part of the striker’s dress or person
(except his hands), the umpire shall call “leg bye.”
14. At the beginning of each innings the umpire
shall call “play” from that time to the end of each
innings no trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler.
15. The striker is out if either of the bails be
bowled off, or if a stump be bowled out of the ground.
16. Or, if the ball, from the stroke of the bat
or hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touches
the ground, although it be hugged to the body of
the catcher;
17. Or, if in striking, or at any other time when
the ball shall be in play, both his feet shall be over
the popping-crease, and his wicket put down, except
his bat be grounded within it;
18. Or, if in striking at the ball he hit down his
wicket;
19. Or, if under pretence of running, or
otherwise, either of the strikers prevent a ball from
being caught, the striker of the ball is out;
20. Or, if the ball be struck, and he wilfully
strike it again;
21. Or, if in running, the wicket be struck down
with a throw, or by the hand or arm (with ball in
hand), before his bat (in hand) or some part of his
person be grounded over the popping-crease. But
if both the bails be off, a stump must be struck out
of the ground;
22. Or, if any part of the striker’s dress knock
down the wicket;
23. Or, if the striker touch or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of the opposite
party;
24. Or, if with any part of his person he stop
the ball, which in the opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket shall have been pitched in a straight
line from it to the striker’s wicket, and would have
hit it.
25. If the players have crossed each other, he
that runs for the wicket which is put down is out.
26. A ball being caught no runs shall be reckoned.
27. A striker being run out, that run which he
and his partner were attempting shall not be reck-
oned.
28. If a lost ball be called, the striker shall be
allowed six runs; but if more than six shall have
been run before “lost ball” shall have been called,
then the striker shall have all which have been
run.
29. After the ball shall have been finally settled
in the wicket keeper’s or bowler’s hand, it shall be
considered dead; but when the bowler is about to
deliver the ball, if the striker at his wicket go out-
side the popping-crease before such actual delivery,
the said bowler may put him out, unless (with
reference to the 21st law) his bat in hand, or some
part of his person, be within the popping-crease.
30. The striker shall not retire from his wicket
and return to it to complete his innings after
another has been in, without the consent of the
opposite party.
31. No substitute shall in any case be allowed
to stand out, or run between wickets for another
person, without the consent of the opposite party;
and in case any person shall be allowed to run for
another, the striker shall be out if either he or his
substitute be off the ground in manner mentioned
in laws 17 and 21, while the ball is in play.
32. In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed,
the consent of the opposite party shall also be ob-
tained as to the person to act as substitute, and the
place in the field which he shall take.
33. If any fieldsman stop the ball with his bat,
the ball shall be considered dead, and the opposite
party shall add five runs to their score; if any be
run they shall have five in all.
34. The ball having been hit, the striker may
guard his wicket with his bat, or with any part of
his body except his hands; that the 23d law may
not be disobeyed.
35. The wicket-keeper shall not take the ball for
the purpose of stumping until it has passed the
wicket; he shall not move until the ball be out of
the bowler’s hand; he shall not by any noise incom-
mode the striker; and if any part of his person
be over or before the wicket, although the ball hit
it, the striker shall not be out.
36. The umpires are the sole judges of fair or
unfair play; and all disputes shall be determined
by them, each at his own wicket; but in case of a
catch which the umpire at the wicket bowled from
cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he may
apply to the other umpire, whose opinion shall be
conclusive.
37. The umpires in all matches shall pitch fair
wickets; and the parties shall toss-up for choice of
innings. The umpires shall change wickets after
each party has had one innings.
38. They shall allow two minutes for each striker
to come in, and ten minutes between each innings.
When the umpire shall call “play,” the party
refusing to play shall lose the match.
39. They are not to order a striker out unless
appealed to by the adversaries;
40. But if one of the bowler’s feet be not on the
ground behind the bowling-crease, and within the
return-crease, when he shall deliver the ball, the
umpire at his wicket, unasked, must call “no
ball.”
41. If either of the strikers run a short run, the
umpire must call “one short.”
42. No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
43. No umpire is to be changed during a
match, unless with the consent of both parties,
except in case of violation of the 42d law; then
either party may dismiss the transgressor.
44. After the delivery of four balls, the umpire
must call “Over,” but not until the ball shall
be finally settled in the wicket keepers, or
bowler's hand; the ball shall then be con-
sidered dead; nevertheless if an idea be
entertained that either of the strikers is out, a
question may be put previously to, but not
after the delivery of the next ball.
45. The umpire must take especial care to call “No
Ball” instantly upon delivery, “Wide Ball”
as soon as ever it shall pass the striker.
46. The players who go in second shall follow their
innings, if they have obtained one hundred runs
less than their antagonist.
47. When one of the strikers shall have been put
out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to
any person, until the next striker shall come in.

Laws for Single Wicket.
1 When there shall be less than five players on a side, bounds shall be
placed twenty-two
yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
2. The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the striker to
a run; which run cannot be
obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with it
with his bat, or some part of
his person, or go beyond them; returning to the popping crease as at
double wicket, according to
the 22nd law.
3. When the striker shall hit the ball one of his feet must be on
the ground, and behind the
popping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “No Hit.”
4. When there shall be less than five players on a side neither byes
nor overthrows shall be
allowed; nor shall the striker be caught out behind wicket, nor
stumped out.
5. The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the
play between the wicket, & the
bowling stump, or between the bowling stump, and the bounds; the
striker may run till the ball
be so returned.
6. After the striker shall have made one run, if
he start again he must touch the bowling-stump,
and turn before the ball cross the play, to entitle
him to another.
7. The striker shall be entitled to three runs for
lost ball, and the same number for ball stopped
with bat, with reference to the 28th and 33rd laws
of double wicket.
8. When there shall be more than four players
on a side, there shall be no bounds: all “hits,”
“byes,” and “overthrows” will then be allowed.
9. The bowler is subject to the same laws as at
double wicket.
10. No more than one minute shall be allowed
between each two balls.
