THE GAME
1.—A match is played between two sides of 11 players
each, unless otherwise agreed to. Each side has two innings,
taken alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53.
The choice of innings shall be decided by tossing.
RUNS.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:—
1.—So often as the batsman after a hit, or at any time while
the ball is in play, shall have crossed and made good their
ground from end to end. 2.—For penalties under Laws 16, 34,
41, and allowances under 41. Any run or runs so scored shall
be duly recorded by scorers appointed for the purpose. The
side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the match.
No match is won unless played out or given up, except in the
case provided for in Law 45.
APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two umpires
shall be appointed: one for each end.
THE BALL.
4.—The ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a
half, nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall
measure not less than nine inches, nor more than nine inches
and one quarter in circumference. At the beginning of each
innings either side may demand a new ball.
THE BAT.
5.—The bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter
in the widest part; it shall not be more than 38 inches in
length.
THE WICKETS.
6.—The wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to
each other at a distance of 22 yards. Each wicket shall be
eight inches in width, and consist of three stumps, with two
bails upon the top. The Stumps shall be of equal and
sufficient size to prevent the ball passing through, 27 inches
out of the ground. The bails shall be each four inches in
length, and, when in position on top of the stumps, shall not
project more than half-an-inch above them. The wickets
shall not be changed during the match unless the ground
between them become unfit for play, and then only by consent
of both sides.
THE BOWLING CREASE.
7.—The bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps
6 feet 8 inches in length, the stumps in the centre, with a
return crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
THE POPPING CREASE.
8.—The popping crease shall be marked four feet from
the wicket, parallel to it, and deemed unlimited in length.
THE GROUND.
9.—The ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered
mown, or beaten during a match except before the commence-
ment of each innings and of each day’s play, when unless
the in-side object, the ground shall be swept and rolled for not
more than ten minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman
from beating the ground with his bat, nor the batsman nor
bowler from using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foot-
hold.
THE BOWLER. NO BALL.
10.—The ball must be bowled; if thrown or jerked either
umpire shall call “no ball.”
11.—The bowler shall deliver the ball with one foot on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within the return
crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “no ball.”
WIDE BALL.
12.—If the bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so
wide of the wicket, that in the opinion of the umpire it is
not within reach of the striker the umpire shall call “wide
ball.”
THE OVER.
13.—The ball shall be bowled in overs of six balls from
each wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled,
and the ball is finally settled in the bowler's or wicket-keeper’s
hands, the umpire shall call “over.” Neither a “no ball” nor
a “wide ball” shall be reckoned as one of the over.
14.—The bowler may change ends as often as he pleases,
provided that he shall not bowl two overs in succession in the
same innings.
15.—The bowler may require the batsman at the wicket
from which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he
may direct.
SCORING OFF NO BALLS AND WIDE BALLS.
16.—The striker may hit a “no ball,” and whatever runs
result shall be added to his score; but he shall not be out
from a “no ball” unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27,
29 and 30. All runs made from a “no ball,” otherwise than
from the bat, shall be scored “no balls,” and, if no run be
made, one run shall be added to that score. From a “wide
ball” as many runs as are run shall be added to that score
as “wide balls,” and if no runs be otherwise obtained, one run
shall be so added.
BYE.
17.—If the ball, not having been called “wide” or “no-ball,”
pass the striker without touching his bat or person, and any
runs be obtained, the umpire shall call “bye;” but if the
ball touch any part of the striker’s person (hand excepted)
and any run be obtained, the umpire shall call “leg-bye;” such
runs to be scored “byes” and “leg-byes” respectively.
PLAY.
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings,
the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall call “play” from that
time. No trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground
between the wickets, and, when one of the batsmen is out the
use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person until the
next batsman shall come in.
DEFINITIONS.
19.—A batsman shall be held to be “out of his ground”
unless his bat in hand or some part of his person be grounded
within the line of the popping crease.
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “down” when either
of the bails is struck off or, if both bails be off, when a stump
is struck out of the ground.
THE STRIKER.
21.—The striker is out if the wicket be bowled down,
even if the ball first touch the striker's bat or person:
“Bowled.”
22.—Or, if a ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but
not the wrist be held before it touch the ground, although it
be hugged to the body of the catcher:—“Caught.”
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not
touched by the bat or hand the striker be out of his ground,
and the wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball
or with the hand or arm, with ball in hand:—“Stumped.”
24.—Or, if with any part of his person he stop the ball,
which in the opinion of the umpire at the bowler's wicket
shall have been pitched in a straight line from it to the
striker's wicket and would have hit it:—“Leg before wicket.”
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket
with his bat or any part of his person or dress:—“Hit wicket.”
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either
of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught:—
“Obstructing the field."
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of
his person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done
for the purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with
his bat or any part of his person, except his hands:—“Hit
the ball twice.”
THE BATSMEN.
28.—Either batsman is out if in running, or at any other
time, while the ball is in play, he be out of his ground, and
his wicket be struck down by the ball after touching any
fieldsman, or by the hand or arm (with ball in hand) of any
fieldsman:—“Run out.”
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of the opposite side:—
“Handled the ball.”
30.—Or if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman:—Obstruct-
ing the field.’
31.—If the batsman have crossed each other, he that runs
for the wicket which is put down is out; if they have not
crossed, he that has left the wicket which is put down is out.
32.—The striker being caught no run shall be scored. A
batsman being run out, that run which was being attempted
shall not be scored.
33.—A batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall
be “dead.”
LOST BALL.
34.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any
fieldsman may call “lost-ball,” when the ball shall be “dead;”
six runs shall be added to the score; but if more than six runs
have been run before “lost ball” has been called as many runs
as have been run shall be scored.
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in the
wicket keeper’s or bowler's hand, it shall be ‘dead;” but
when the bowler is about to deliver the ball if the batsman
at his wicket be out of his ground before actual delivery, the
said bowler may run him out; but if the bowler throw at the
wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “no ball.”
36.—A batsman shall not retire from his wicket and
return to it to complete his innings after another has been in
without the consent of the opposite side.
SUBSTITUTE.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between
wickets for any player who may, during the match be
incapacitated from illness or injury, but for no other reason
except with the consent of the opposite side.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the
consent of the opposite side shall be obtained as to a
person to act as a substitute, and the place in the field which
he shall take.
39.—In case any substitute shall be allowed to run
between wickets, the striker may be run out if either he or
his substitute be out of his ground. If the striker be out of
his ground while the ball is in play, that wicket which
he has left may be put down and the striker given out, although
the other batsman may have made good the ground at the
end, and the striker and his substitute at the other end.
40.—A batsman is liable to be put out for any infringe
ment of the laws by his substitute.
THE FIELDSMAN.
41.—The fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his
person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be
“dead” and five runs added to the score; whatever runs may
have been made, five only shall be added.
WICKET-KEEPER.
42.—The wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket.
If he shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping before it
has passed the wicket, or if he shall incommode the striker
by any noise, or motion, or if any part of his person be over
or before the wicket, the striker shall not be out, excepting
under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
DUTIES OF UMPIRES.
43.—The umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair
play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light
for play; all disputes shall be determined by them, and if
they disagree, the actual state of things shall continue.
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries
where necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and
change ends after each side has had one innings.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each striker to
come in, and ten minutes between each innings. When they
call “play” the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed
to by the other side.
47.—The umpire at the bowler's wicket shall be appealed
to before the other umpire in all cases except in those of
stumping, hit wicket, run out at the striker’s wicket, or
arising out of Law 42, but in any case in which an umpire is
unable to give a decision he shall appeal to the other umpire,
whose decision shall be final.
48a.—If either umpire be not satisfied of the absolute
fairness of the delivery of any ball, he shall call “no ball.”
48b.—The umpire shall take special care to call “no ball”
instantly upon delivery; “wide ball” as soon as it shall have
passed the striker.
49.—If either batsman run a short run the umpire shall
call “one short,” and the run shall not be scored.
50.—After the umpire has called “over” the ball is
“dead” but an appeal may be made as to whether either
batsman is out; such appeal however, shall not be made after
the delivery of the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
51.—No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No umpire shall be changed during a match unless
with the consent of both sides, except in case of violation of
Law 51, when either side may dismiss him.
FOLLOWING INNINGS
53.—The side which goes in second shall follow their
innings if they have scored 150 runs less than the opposite
side.
1.—On the last day of a match, or if a one day match at
any time, the in-side shall be empowered to declare the
innings at an end.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which goes in second shall follow their
innings if they have scored 75 runs less than the opposite
side.
2.—The match, unless played out shall be decided by the
first innings.
3.—Prior to the commencement of a match it may be
agreed that the over consist of five or six balls.
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES.
These instructions, drawn up in 1842 by the Committee
of the M.C.C., are intended as an appendix to the Laws of the
game.
FITNESS OF THE GROUND.
Law 43.—At the commencement of a match the umpires
may be appealed to by either side as to the fitness of the
ground for play.
Should they not agree play will not commence until they
are agreed.
In case of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has
ceased the umpires shall immediately, without further instruc-
tion, inspect the wicket, unaccompanied by any of the players,
and decide upon its fitness. Should it prove unfit they shall
continue to inspect it at intervals, until they decide that it is
fit for play, when they shall call upon the players to resume
the game.
The ground is unfit for play when water stands on the
surface, or when it is so wet, muddy or slippery as to deprive
the bowlers of a reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the
power of free movement.
The umpires are not to be biassed by the opinions of either
side, still less are they to allow themselves to be influenced by
the impatience of the spectators for a resumption of the game,
and are not to be induced by the public interest in a particular
match to declare the ground fit for play, unless they would
consider that ground fit under any circumstances.
Fitness of Light for Play.
The umpires may decide, on appeal, that there is not
sufficient light for play. Should the light improve before the
time for drawing stumps, they shall, without waiting for
instructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
Law 47.—An umpire is only justified in appealing to the
other umpire when he is unable to decide, owing to his having
been prevented from seeing the occurrence upon which the
appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the other umpire in
cases on which he could give a decision, merely because he is
unwilling to give that decision. If he be in any doubt, the
principle laid down in Law 43, “That the existing state of
things shall continue,” shall be followed, and, in consequence,
the decision should be in favour of the batsman.
Law 48.—The special attention of umpires is called to
this law, which directs them to call “no ball” unless abso-
lutely satisfied of the fairness of the delivery.
Umpires should not allow themselves to be unduly
influenced by appeals from such of the field who were not in a
position to form a judgment on the point appealed upon, or by
tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on appealing for a catch
at the wicket, without waiting for the decision. Umpires,
being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, should remember
that such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accord-
ance with the spirit in which cricket should be played.
THE LAWS OF SINGLE WICKET.
The Laws are, where they apply, the same as those of double wicket
with the following alterations and additions—
1.—One wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a
bowling stump opposite to it, at a distance of 22 yards. The
bowling crease shall be in line with the bowling stump, and
drawn according to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five players on a side,
bounds shall be placed 22 yards each in a line from the off and
leg stump.
3.—The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the
striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless he
touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with his bat, or
some part of his person, or go beyond them, and return to the
popping crease.
4.—When the striker
shall hit the ball, one of his feet
must be on the ground, behind the popping crease, otherwise
the umpire shall call “no hit,” and no run shall be scored.
5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side,
neither byes, leg-byes, nor overthrows shall be allowed, nor
shall the striker be caught out behind the wicket, nor stumped.
6.—The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall
cross the ground between the wicket and the bowling stump,
or between the bowling stump and the bounds. The striker
may run till the ball be so returned.
7.—After the striker shall have made one run, if he starts
again he must touch the middle stump or crease, and turn
before the ball cross the ground to entitle him to another.
8.—The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost
ball, and the same number for ball wilfully stopped by a
field-man otherwise than with any part of his person.
9.—When there shall be more than four players on a
side there shall be no bounds. All runs, byes, leg byes, and
overthrows shall then be allowed.
10.—There shall be no restriction as to the ball being
bowled in overs, but no more than one minute shall be
allowed between each ball.
