1.—A match is played between two sides of eleven players each, unless otherwise agreed to; each side has two innings, taken alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53. The choice of innings shall be decided by tossing.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:—

1st—So often as the Batsmen, after a hit, or at any time while the ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made good their ground from end to end.
2nd—For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41, and allowances under 44.
Any run or runs so scored shall be duly recorded by scorers appointed for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the match. No match is won unless played out or given up, except in the case provided in Law 45.
Notes on Law 2.
Where a batsman takes his guard in front of the popping crease and a run is made from that point it is not the custom for the Umpire to call “one short”.
When a batsman has actually made more runs for a boundary hit than have been arranged for the boundary, this Law will prevail, and the runs completed should be scored.
Neither side can be compelled to continue after the match is finished.
In a One Day Match the Umpires should decide if there is sufficient time left to carry the game to a further issue after each side has completed an innings.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two Umpires shall be appointed; one for each end.
Note on Law 3.
It should be noted, especially in League and Saturday Matches, that Umpires are appointed “one for each end” and not one for each side.
4.—The Ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a half, nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall measure not less than nine inches, nor more than nine inches and one-quarter in circumference. At the beginning of each innings either side may demand a new ball.
Note on Law 4.
It has become the practice to call for another ball at any time, with the Umpire’s consent, if the old one has become damaged or if the bowler has lifted the seam to obtain a better hold. (See “Umpires.”)
5.—The Bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter in the widest part; it shall not be more than thirty-eight inches in length. (See “Umpires.”)
6.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other at a distance of twenty-two yards. Each wicket shall be eight inches in width, and consist of three stumps, with two bails upon the top. The stumps shall be of equal and of sufficient size to prevent the ball from passing through, twenty-seven inches out of the ground. The bails shall be each four inches in length, and when in position, on the top of the stumps, shall not project more than half-an-inch above them. The wickets shall not be changed during a match, unless the ground between them become unfit for play, and then only by consent of both sides.
7.—The bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps; eight feet eight inches in length; the stumps in the centre; with a Return Crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
Note on Law 7.
The Return Crease is shortened for convenience. It must be deemed unlimited in length.
8.—The Popping Crease shall be marked four feet from the wicket, parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.
9.—The Ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown, or beaten during a match, except before the commencement of each innings and of each day's play, when, unless the In-Side object, the ground shall be swept and rolled for not more than ten minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman from beating the ground with his bat, nor the batsmen nor bowler from using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foothold.
Note on Law 9.
In week end starts the wicket may be mown on the Monday morning under the supervision of the Umpires.
The batting side has a right to have the ground swept and rolled “for not more than 10 minutes” immediately before the commencement of each innings and of each day’s play. It is the duty of the Captain to see that his side obtain this advantage. The ground in this law means “ the pitch.” (See “Umpires.”)
The responsibility of supervising the rolling of the pitch before play will, in the first place, rest with the Umpires.
Pending an alteration to this Law the M.C.C. have advised the County Cricket Clubs to concur in the following procedure to adopt any covering to protect the ground against rain at any time after 7 o’clock a.m. on the morning of the first day of a match. After the actual commencement of play the ground may be again protected when necessary and shall be protected every night during the continuation of a match, but the covering shall be removed each morning, if fine, at 7 o’clock a.m The covering must not protect a larger area than 18ft by 12ft at each end, and must not protect more than 3ft 6in in front of the popping crease.
10.—The Ball must be bowled; if thrown or jerked either Umpire shall call “No-ball.”
11.—The Bowler shall deliver the Ball with one foot on the ground behind the bowling crease, and within the return crease, otherwise the Umpire shall call “No-Ball.”
Notes on Law 11.
A bowler may bowl with both feet behind the bowling crease provided that one foot is within the return crease.
If a bowler knock the wicket with his foot in delivering the ball and remove a bail, such act does not in itself justify an Umpire in calling “No Ball.”
When part of the bowler’s foot is grounded on or outside the return crease the Umpire should call “No Bail.”
Many bowlers deliver the ball with the toe of the back foot pointing towards the near wicket, and with the heel towards and over the return crease. If the bowler so delivers the ball with the heel on the ground, the Umpire “No Balls” him (the foot not being entirely within the return crease). If he delivers with the heel raised off’the ground and keeps that part of the foot which is on the ground within the return crease the delivery is allowed as fair.
One foot must be grounded behind the bowling and within the return crease when the ball is delivered.
The Umpire in this law refers to the Umpire at the bowlers wicket.
12.—If the Bowler shall bowl the Ball so high over or so wide of the wicket, that in the opinion of the Umpire, it is not within reach of the Striker, the Umpire shall call “Wide Ball.”
Notes on Law 12.
The test for the Umpire to apply in deciding if the ball is wide is whether it is within reach of the Striker.
When the ball has been delivered but remains stationary before reaching the striker no runs can be added to the score, unless it has been struck by the striker. The striker has a right to hit the ball without interference by the field. The Umpire must decide if the ball has been “delivered.”
If the striker hit a ball which has been called “Wide” the call should be ignored.
When only one run has been made from a “Wide Ball” the batsmen do not cross over to the positions they were in before the run was made.
When a wide is called the ball does not on that account become “dead” and the batsman may be out stumped or run out.
13.—The Ball shall be bowled in Overs of six balls from each wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled, and the ball is finally settled in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s hands, the Umpire shall call “Over.” Neither a “No-Ball" nor “Wide Ball” shall be reckoned as one of the “Over.”
Notes on Law 13.
This Law should be read with Law 16. Though provision is made in Law 16 by which the Striker may obtain runs from a “No Ball” the fact remains that “neither a No Ball nor Wide Ball shall be reckoned as one of the over.”
Although not counted in the over No Balls and Wides should be recorded in their proper place on the score sheet.
An over should always be finished, unless a wicket fall within two minutes of time (see Law 45), or unless there is a local rule extending the time.
It is the Umpire’s and not the Scorer’s duty to call over.
14.—The Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as he pleases, provided only that he does not bowl two Overs consecutively in one innings.
15.—The Bowler may require the Batsman at the wicket from which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may direct.
16.—The Striker may hit a “No Ball,” and whatever runs result shall be added to his score: but he shall not be out from a “No Ball,” unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27, 29, 30.
All runs made from a “No Ball,” otherwise than from the bat, shall be scored “No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall be added to that score. From a “Wide Ball,” as many runs as are run shall be added to the score as “Wide Balls,” and if no run be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
Notes on Law 16.
(See Laws 13, 23, 28 and 32 and Notes.)
A Batsman cannot be stumped off a No Ball (Law 16). The Laws of Cricket clearly make a distinction between the wicket-keeper and the fieldsmen and between cases of “stumping” and “run out’’(see Laws 23 and 28).
When a No Ball has been called it must be left to the Umpire to decide, on the facts before him, whether the case is one of “stumping” (under Law 23) or “run out,” (under Law 28).
When a run is made by the bat of'a “No Ball’’only the run to the batsman should be scored and not the “No Ball” as well. If one run is attempted and the batsman is run out the “No Ball” alone counts If runs are made off a “No Ball,” although the runs are scored and not the “No Ball,” the bowler is allowed another delivery.
When Byes or Overthrows are run from a “Wide” they are scored as “Wides.”
A Batsman may be out “hit wicket,” when striking at a “Wide.”
17.—If the ball, not having been called “Wide” or “No Ball,” pass the Striker without touching his bat, or person, and any runs be obtained, the Umpire shall call “Bye”; but if the ball touch any part of the Striker’s person (hand excepted) and any run be obtained, the Umpire shall call “Leg Bye,” such runs to be scored “Byes” and “Leg Byes” respectively.
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings, the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall call “Play”; from that time no trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground between the wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person until the next batsman shall come in.
Note on Law 18.
In 1911 an agreement was arrived at between the Counties that “Trial balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, be not allowed in First Class Matches.’
This arrangement was approved and adopted by the M.C.C.
19.—A Batsman shall be held to be “out of his ground,” unless his bat In hand, or some part of his person be grounded within the line of the Popping Crease.
Notes on Law 19.
It is sufficient if part of the batsman’s foot is grounded within the line.
If the foot is on the line, but no part is within,the batsman would be “out of his ground.”
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “down,” when either of the bails is struck off, or if both bails bo off, when a stump is struck out of the ground.
Notes on Law 20.
If one bail is off it is sufficient to remove the remaining one with the ball in order to stump or run a batsman out.
Although the Law says nothing about the stumps being pulled, out it is customary to run a batsman out in this way when the bails are off; but the ball must be in the fieldsman’s hand when he uses it for this purpose. (See also Law 28.)
The Striker is Out-
21.—If the wicket be bowled down, even if the ball first touch the Striker's bat or person;—“Bowled.”
Note on Law 21.
An Umpire would be justified in giving the striker out “Bowled” if a stump were bowled down, but the bails by some mischance remained in position.
The striker would be out under this Law if any part of either bail is “struck off” (see Law 20) the top of the wicket.
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to the body of the catcher“Caught."
Notes on Law 22.
(See Notes on Law 32.)
The ball must not touch the ground before it is held; but the hand holding the ball may touch the ground in effecting the catch.
When a fieldsman catches a ball and falls and the ball touches the ground, it is a question of fact for the Umpire to decide whether or not the catch was completed before the ball touched the ground.
When a Batsman plays a ball on to the ground and in order to prevent it hitting the wicket, after touching the ground, he strikes it again and the ball is caught, the batsman is not out. But if he hit the ball a second time before it touches the ground and is caught, he would be out under this Law.
A Batsman would be out if caught off a ball which before striking the bat had hit his pad.
If no boundaries have been arranged a Striker can be caught off a tree, hedge, or building.
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched by the bat or hand, the Striker be out of his ground, and the wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with hand or arm with ball in hand “Stumped.”
Notes on Law 23
If the ball rebounds off the pads or person of the wicket-keeper, without having first touched the bat or hand oi the Striker, and the Striker is out of his ground the decision should be “Stumped,” and not “Run Out.”
It is sufficient for the wicket-keeper to remove one bail in order to run out or stump a batsman.
It would not be out if he were to knock the bails off with his foot or with an arm or hand not holding the ball.
24.—Or, If with part of his person he stops the ball, which In the opinion of the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall have been pitched in a straight line from it to the Striker's wicket and would have hit it“Leg before wicket.”
Notes on Law 24.
A Batsman may be out lb w, although the bowler is bowling round the wicket, if the case comes within this Law.
There are three considerations which an Umpire must bear in mind:—
(1) Would the ball have hit the wicket? (2) Did it pitch in a straight line between wicket and wicket? (3) Was it part of the batsman’s person, other than the hand, which intercepted the ball? If these questions are answered in the affirmative the batsman would be out.
It is immaterial whether the ball breaks or not. It is sometimes only possible for a bowler bowling round the wicket to obtain an l.b.w with a breaking ball.
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with his bat or any part of his person or dress “Hit Wicket.”
Notes on Law 25.
(See Law 16, Note 3.) *
If in making a second stroke to keep a ball out of his wicket, the Striker hit down his wicket as above he would be out.
A batsman would not be out for breaking the wicket either with his bat or person when in the act of running.
If while playing at the ball, but not otherwise, the Striker’s hat or cap fell on the wicket and dislodged a bail he would be out.
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught “Obstructing the field.”
Note on Law 26.
It should be noted that it is the Striker who is out if this Law is infringed.
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of his person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done for the purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with his bat, or any part of his person, except his hands;—“Hit the ball twice.”
Notes on Law 27.
It is for the Umpire to decide whether the ball has been struck wilfully” for some purpose other than that of guarding the wicket. The fact that a run is attempted may be evidence of the batsman’s intention to take advantage of the second stroke and the Umpire is entitled to regard it as such, but
it is not conclusive.
If the ball has been lawfully struck twice and an overthrow is made, the batsmen are entitled to the runs which follow.
A Striker may be out for hitting the ball twice, although no run is attempted. (See also Law 22, Note 3.)
Either Batsman is Out—
28.—If in running, or at any other time, when the ball Is in play he be out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down by the bal after touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, with ball in hand, of any fieldsman “Run out.” But the Striker may not be out thus, unless the ball has touched the bat or hand, when, in playing at a No-ball he be out of his ground and the wicket be put down by the wicket-koeper with the ball, or with hand or arm with ball in hand.
Notes on Law 28.
(See Notes to Law 20.)
It would not be out if the striker hit the ball into the opposite wickets—the other batsman being out of his ground—unless the nail had been touched by a fieldsman after being hit and before striking the wickets.
Either batsman can be “run out” at any time when the ball is in play by any fieldsman, including the bowler (except as provided above).
For a definition of “out of his ground” see Law 19 and Notes.
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball while In play, unless at the request of the opposite side “Handled the ball.”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman “Obstructing the field.”
Note on Law 30.
The Umpire must decide on the facts before him if the obstruction was “wilful.”
31.—If the batsmen have crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket which is put down is out; if they have not crossed he that has left the wicket which is put down is out
32.—The Striker being caught no run shall be scored. A Batsman being run out, that run which was being attempted shall not be scored.
Notes on Law 32.
(See Notes on Law 22.)
Although that run which is being attempted shall not be scored it is not the custom for the remaining batsman to resume his position at the wicket he has left if he and his partner have crossed.
When a run has been made oft’ a no-ball the no-ball should be scored although the ball has been caught.

12
33a.—A Batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be “Dead."
33b.—If the Ball, whether struck with the bat or not, lodges In a Batsman's Clothing, the ball shall become “Dead."
Notes oti Laws 33a and 336.
A ball does not become “Dead” when the bails are of! or the wickets stnick down or because an unsuccessful appeal has been made to the Umpire.
Lodging in a batsman’s clothing includes practically all ways in which a ball can be said to lodge in or against his clothing.
(See Note on Law 34.)
The ball does not become “Dead” on hitting the Umpire.
The ball ceases to be “Dead” when the bowler begins his run or bowling action.
34.—If a ball In play cannot be found or recovered, any Fieldsman may call “Lost Ball," when the ball shall be “Dead" ; six runs shall be added to the score ; but if more than six runs have been run before “Lost Ball" has been called, as many runs as have been run shall be scored.
Note on Law 34.
A ball can only become “Dead” under Laws 33a, 336, 34, 35, 41 & 50, or on the call of a boundary.
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in.the Wicket- keeper’s or Bowler's hand, it shall be “Dead" ; but when the Bowler Is about to deliver the ball, if the Batsman at his wicket be out of his ground before actual delivery, the said Bowler may run him out; but if the Bowler throw at that wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “No Ball."
Notes on Law 35.

Whether the ball is “finally settled” is a question of fact for the Umpire only to decide.
A bowler may run a Batsman out, without having delivered the ball, in anyway authorized by the Laws. He may have passed the bowling crease in his run or may change the ball from one hand to the other before throwing at the wicket or knocking off the bails. The bails may be knocked off from either side of the wickets.
36.—A Batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return to it to complete his innings after another has been in, without the consent of the opposite side.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between wickets for any player, who may during the match, be incapacitated from illness or injury, but for no other reason, except with the consent of the opposite side.
13
Notes on Law 37.
It iswcll to remember that a side which loses a player’s services through illness or injury, brought about during a match, is entitled to a substitute, “it shall be allowed” whereas under other circumstances consent isnecessaiy which must depend upon the courtesy of the opposing Captain.
Many disputes would be avoided if the Captains, before tossing exchanged lists of the players.
There is no law prohibiting a player from bowling because he has had a substitute to run for him.
A side which has been short in the field may bat with its full number.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the consent of the opposite side shall be obtained as to the person to act as substitute, and the place in the field which he shall take.
39.—In case any substitute shall be allowed tc run between wickets, the Striker may bo run out if either he or his substitute be out of his ground. If the Striker be out of his ground while tho ball is in play, that wicket which he has left may be put down and the Striker given out, although the other batsman may have made good the ground at that end, and the Striker and his substitute at the other end.
Notes on Law 39.
The distinction between the words “Striker” and “Batsman” should be appreciated. When the injured Batsman is not the Striker he is subject only to such penalty under this Law as is incurred by his runner.
The intention of this Law is that the injured striker’s ground, when he has a substitute to run for him, is at the wicket keeper’s end. lie himself can only be run out at that end as provided for in the latter part of the Law.
40.—A Batsman is liable to be out for any infringment of the Laws by his substitute.
41.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be “Dead," and five runs added to the score,* whatever runs may have been made, five only shall be added.
Note on Law 41.
The “five runs” are to be added to the runs already made when the F eldsman “wilfully” stopped the ball.
42.—The Wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket If he shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping, before it has passed the wicket, or, if he shall incommode the Striker by any noise, or motion, or If any part of his person be over or before the wicket, the Striker shall not be out, excepting under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
Note on Law 42.
A Wicket-keeper may run a Batsman out by going in front of the Wicket (Law 28). The Umpire must decide from the facts if the act is legal.
43.—The Umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light for play; all disputes shall be determined by them, and If they disagree the actual state of things shall continue.
(See “Umpires”.
14
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and change ends after each side has had one innings.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each Striker to como in, and ten minutes between each innings. When they shall call “Play” the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
Notes on Law 45.
The In-going Batsman should meet the out-coming batsman before he enters the Pavilion.
It is the duty of the Captains to see that this Law is strictly observed.
The effect of this Law is that the Umpire shall decide whether the delay of the individual amounts to a refusal of the batting side to play. It pro- vides a specific penalty in such a case but none for tJie individual.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to by the other side.
N.B.—An appeal, “Mow’s that?” covers all ways of being out (within the jurisdiction of the Umpire appealed to), unless a* specific way of getting out is stated by the person asking.
47.—The Umpire at the bowler's wicket shall be appealed to before the other Umpire in all cases, except in those of stumping, hit wicket, run out at the Striker’s wicket, or arising out of Law 42, but in any case in which an Umpire is unable to give a decision, he shall appeal to the other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
Note on Law 47.
When the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket has given a Batsman “not out” the other Umpire may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction, subject to an observance of Law 50.
48.—If either Umpire be not satisfied of the absolute fairness of the delivery of any ball, he shall call “No Ball.”
48a.—The Umpire shall take especial care to call “No Ball” instantly upon delivery; “Wide Ball” as soon as it shall have passed the striker.
Note on Law 4S and 48«.
If an Umpire has called “No Ball” when the ball has not been delivered he should revoke his decision.
49.—If either batsman run a short run, the Umpire shall call “One short” and the run shall not be scored.
(See Notes under “The Batsman,” page 16.)
50.—After the Umpire has called “Over” the ball is “Dead,” but an appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is out, such appeal however shall not be made after the delivery of the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
Note on Law 50.
No act on the part of the fielding side can cause a batsman to be out after the Umpire has called “Over,” but an appeal may be made within the allotted time.
15
51.—No Umpire shall be allowed to bet
52.—No Umpire shall be changed during a match, unless with the consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law 51; then either side may dismiss him.
53.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in a threedays’ match, or by 100 runs in a two days’ match, shall have the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
(See special alterations which apply to cricket in Australia only.)
54.—The In-side may declare their innings at an end In a three days’ match, at any time on the second day; in a two days’ match the Captain of the batting side has power to declare his innings at a close at any time; but such declaration may not be made on the first day later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the hour agreed on for drawing stumps; in a one day match at any time.
Notes on Law 51.
(See also under Umpires as to “declaring.”)
A declaration of a first innings does not preclude a second innings.
For the purpose of stating the result of a match, an innings declared at an end is regarded as completed and the victory, if accomplished, is in runs and not by wickets.
55.—Where there is no play on the first day of a three day match Laws 53 and 54 shall apply as if the match were a two day match, and if in a three day match there is no play on the first two days, Law 54 and Law 1 ‘ one day matches ’ shall apply as if the match were a one day match. Where there is no play on the first day of a two-day match, Law 54 and Law 1 ‘ one day matches’ shall apply as if the match were a one-day match.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which bats firstand leads by 75 runs shall have the option of requiring the other side to follow their Innings
2.—The Match, unless played out, shall be decided by the First Innings. Prior to the commencement of a match it may be agreed that the Over consist of 5 or 6 balls.
N.B.—A tie is included in the words “played out.”
SINGLE WICKET.
The Laius are, where they apply, the same as the above, with the following alterations and additions.
1.—One Wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a Bowling Stump opposite to it, at a distance of twenty-two yards. The Bowling crease shall be in a line with the bowling stump; and drawn according to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five players on a side, Bounds shall be placed twenty-two yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
16
3.—The ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the Striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them, and return to the popping crease.
4.—When the Striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the ground behind the popping crease, otherwise the Umpire shall call “No Hit,” and no run shall be scored.
5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither Byes. Leg Byes, nor Overthrows shall be allowed, nor shall the Striker be caught out behind the wicket, nor stumped.
6.—The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the ground between the wicket and the bowling stump, or between the bowling stump and the bounds; the Striker may run till the ball be so returned.
7.—After the Striker shall have made one run, if he start again he must touch the bowling stump or crease, and turn before the ball cross the ground to entitle him to another.
8.—The Striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the same number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with any part of his person.
9.—When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall be no bounds. All Hits, Byes, Leg Byes, and Overthrows shall then be allowed.
10.—There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled in Overs, but no more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
THE BATSMAN.
When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some other unavoidable cause his innings must be counted as “Not out.”
A Side which has fielded with ten men, or less, may bat with its full strength provided no disqualification rule applies.
When a short run is called it is not customary for the batsmen to cross over to the positions they would have been in if the run had not been attempted
NOTICE TO UMPIRES.

An “over” should always be begun if “time” has not been reached and should be finished, except as hereafter provided.
If a wicket fall within two minutes of “time” the Umpires should call “time” unless the incoming batsman claims his right to bat for the time remaining. If a wicket fall after “time” has been reached the Umpires should call “time”.
If a bowler is injured so that he cannot finish the “over” he has begun the over should be regarded as completed.
The boundary in front of the Pavilion at Lord’s is the rails and not the grass slope.
17
THE BOWLERS.
There is no objection to the bowlers’ footholes being filled up wit sawdust, though the game be not actually in progress.
(See “Umpires”.)
It some times happens that the bowler will lift the seam of the ball in order to obtain a better hold. This is not legitimate. The ball, in such a case, should be shown to the Umpire who should call for another ball and warn the Captain that the practice is unfair.
A bowler can bowl round and over the wicket in the same over; but he should give the batsman an opportunity of taking a fresh guard. The same remarks apply to a change from over to under arm bowling, or vice versa.
THE BOUNDARY.
(See Notes to Law 2.)
If a ball hit or pass over or through the boundary or is carried over it by the fieldsman tne Umpire should call a boundary hit, but a fieldsman may lean against the boundary to catch or field a ball, and if a fieldsman when standing within the playing ground, even though he be touching the boundary, catch a ball outside the boundary the batsman should be given out.
When the ball touches the boundary it becomes “Dead.”
The Umpire is not a boundary.
It is for the Umpire to decide if a hit has reached the boundary.
If a seat or other obstacle is placed in the playing ground, within boundaries, and such obstacle is struck by the ball it cannot be regarded as a boundary unless so arranged by the Umpires.
It is the practice for Umpires to allow six runs for
all hits that
drop
over and clear of the boundary line or fence, when four runs are
allowed
for a boundary hit.

UMPIRES.

An Umpire should stand where he can clearly see the act upon which
his decision may be required.
An Umpire wishing to stand on the off side of the wicket instead of the
leg side should ask the permission of the captain of the fielding side.
Umpires should not call “Time” before the Over is finished. (See Law
45)
The Umpires should agree between themselves, before play, what watch
or clock they shall follow in deciding intervals and close of play.
Save as provided by the Laws the Umpires have no right to interfere
in the progress of the game except on appeal.
As to finishing an over see Note to Law 13.
At the end of an over the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket should
distinctly
call “over” before leaving the wicket.

18

The responsibility of supervising the rolling of the pitch before play
will, in the first place, rest with the Umpires.
Umpires are not obliged to stand near the wicket in order to supervise
the rolling.
The Ground may be rolled for ten minutes immediately before a match
begins but the roller must be off the ground so as to allow play to
commence
at the stipulated time.
It is not the scorers business to dictate to the Umpire. The Umpire
should direct the scorer what to record.
At the commencement of a Match, the Umpires may be appealed to
by either side as to the fitness of the Ground for play.
Should they not agree, play will not commence until they are agreed.
Umpires are not justified in deciding the ground unfit for play merely
because the grass is wet and the ball would, in consequence, be
slippery.
In order to facilitate play at the earliest possible moment in wet
weather
the Umpires shall see that the foot holes made by the bowlers and
batsmen
are cleaned out, dried, and filled up with sawdust at any time during
the
match, although the game is not actually in progress.
In case of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has ceased, the
Umpires shall, immediately, without further instruction, inspect the
wicket,
unaccompanied by any of the players, and decide upon its fitness.
Should
it prove unfit, they shall continue to inspect at intervals, until they
decide
that it is fit for play, when they shall call upon the players to
resume
the game.
The ground is unfit for play—when water stands on the surface, or
when it is so wet, muddy, or slippery as to deprive the bowlers of a
reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the power of free movement.
The Umpires are not to be biassed by the opinions of either side, still
less are they to allow themselves to be influenced by the impatience of
the
spectators for a resumption of the game, and are not to be induced, by
the
public interest in a particular match, to declare the ground fit for
play,
unless they would consider the Ground fit under any circumstances.
The Umpires may decide, on appeal from the Captains, should the latter
disagree, that there is not sufficient light for Play. Should the light
improve before the time for drawing stumps, they shall, without waiting
for instructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
In the event of the Captains agreeing as to the condition of the ground
or light, the Umpires will, so far, be relieved of their
responsibility.
An Umpire is only justified in appealing to the other Umpire when
he is unable to decide, owing to his having been prevented from seeing
the occurence on which the appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the
other Umpire in cases on which he could give a decision, merely
because he
is unwilling to give that decision. If he be in any doubt, the
principle laid
down in Law 43, “That the existing state of things shall continue,”
shall be
followed, and in consequence, the decision should be in favour of the
batsman.

19

An Umpire may alter his decision if in the hurry of the moment or by
a slip of the tongue he has given a wrong one; provided that such
alteration
is made promptly.
On giving a decision the Umpire should make sure that the batsman
understands what the decision is.
The special attention of Umpires is called to Law 48, which directs
them to call “No Ball,” unless absolutely satisfied of the fairness of
the delivery.
Umpires should not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by appeals
from such of the field who were not in a position to form a judgment on
the point appealed upon, or by tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on
appealing for a catch at the wicket, without waiting for the decision.
Umpires being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, should remember
that
such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accordance with the
spirit
in which cricket should be played.
It is the duty of Umpires appointed by the Captains of the first and
second class Counties to report to the Secretary M.C.C. any case, on or
off
the field, of a player criticising or showing resentment to the
decision of an
Umpire. The Umpires are, however, required to give notice to the
Captains during the match that it is their intention to make a report.
Umpires should see that there is no infringement of Law 5. When in
doubt as to the width of a bat they should use the gauge.
All Umpires shall report themselves to the Manager of the Ground half
an hour before the commencement of each day’s play and they shall make
a
point of seeing that the wickets, bats and balls are in accordance with
the
Laws of the game and they must remember that the conduct of the game
and the state of the ground is within their jurisdiction.
The interval for luncheon shall be 40 minutes. In the event of the last
wicket falling within two minutes of the time arranged for luncheon the
game shall be resumed at the usual hour, no allowance being made for
the
ten minutes between the innings.
After 200 runs have been made with a ball in the County Competition
the fielding side can demand a new one.
Umpires should inform the batsmen when a new ball is about to be used.
All Cricket balls used in County Cricket matches should be submitted
to and approved by the Captains of the competing sides before the
matches
begin.
Trial balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, shall not be allowed
in
First Class Matches.

20

(a) If a side declare its innings during the luncheon interval, it must
do so within fifteen minutes after the commencement of such interval
otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(b) If a side declare its innings closed in the morning before play
commences, it must do so in sufficient time to enable the other side to
choose
the roller it prefers, otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed
for rolling.
Boundaries shall be signalled by waving the hand from side to side.
Byes shall be signalled by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg-byes shall be signalled by raising the leg and touching it with the
hand.
Wides shall be signalled by extending both arms horizontally.
No-Balls shall be signalled by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “Out” shall be signalled by raising the index finger
above
the head.
“One Short” shall be signalled by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest shoulder with the tips of the fingers
of
one hand.
Umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by the scorer
before allowing the game to proceed.
Besides signalling, the Umpire should “call” distinctly for the infor-
mation of the players.
