THE GAME.
1.—A Match is played between two sides of eleven players each, unless otherwise agreed to; each side has two innings, taken alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53. The choice of innings shall be decided by tossing.

RUNS.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:—
1st—So often as the Batsmen, after a hit, or at any time while the ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made good their ground from end to end.
2nd—For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41, and allowances under 44.

Any run or runs so scored shall be duly recorded by scorers appointed for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the match. No match is won unless played out or given up, except in the case provided in Law 45.

NOTES.
(a) Neither side can be compelled to continue after the match is finished.
(See also Law 13, Note (c).)
(b) A “tie” match is one in which the scores are equal when “time” has been reached, but only if the match has been played out or if the side to bat last has commenced that innings.
In one-day matches a “tie” can only apply to the first innings result if the match has not been carried to a further conclusion.

APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two Umpires shall be appointed; one for each end.
(See Law 43.)

NOTES.
(a) It should be noted, especially in lower grade matches, that umpires are appointed “one for each end” and not one for each side.
(b) An umpire should stand where he can clearly see the act upon which his decision may be required.
An umpire wishing to stand on the off side of the wicket instead of the leg side should obtain the permission of the captain of the fielding side.
(c) Umpires shall agree between themselves, before play, what watch or clock they will follow in deciding intervals and close of play.
(d) Save as provided by the Laws, the umpires have no right to interfere in the progress of the game except on appeal, or under the provision of Law 43.
Note (a) (i).
(e) All umpires shall report themselves to the Manager of the ground 30 minutes before the commencement of each day’s play and they shall make a point of seeing that the wickets, bats and balls are in accordance with the Laws of the game (using measuring tapes and gauges if necessary), and they must remember that the conduct of the game and the state of the ground is within their jurisdiction.
(f) It is not the scorer’s business to dictate to the umpire. The umpire shall direct the scorer what to record.

THE BALL.
4.—The Ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a half, nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall measure not less than eight and thirteen-sixteenths inches, nor more than nine inches in circumference. At the beginning of each innings either side may demand a new ball.
(Revised 4th May, 1927.)
(See also Law 3, Note (e).)

NOTES.
(a) In the event of the umpires agreeing that a ball in use is unfit for play they shall have power to allow another ball (as much as possible like the one discarded) to be substituted.
(b) After 200 runs have been made with a ball in First-class or Minor County matches, the fielding side can demand a new one. This regulation is optional in other grades of cricket. The umpires shall inform the batsmen when a new ball is about to be used.
(c) All cricket balls used in County cricket matches should be submitted to and approved by the captains of the competing sides before the matches begin.

THE BAT.
5.—The Bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter in the widest part; it shall not be more than thirty-eight inches in length.
(See also Law 3, Note (e).)

THE WICKETS.
6.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other at a distance of twenty-two yards. Each wicket shall be not less than eight inches nor more than nine inches in width, and consist of three stumps, with two bails upon the top. The stumps shall be of equal and of sufficient size to prevent the ball from passing through, not less than twenty-seven inches nor more than twenty-eight inches out of the ground. The bails shall be each not less than four inches nor more than four inches and a half in length, and when in position, on the top of the stumps, shall not project more than half-an-inch above them. The wickets shall not be changed during a match, unless the ground between them become unfit for play, and then only by consent of both sides.
(Revised 6th May, 1931.)
(Sec also Law 3, Note (c).)

NOTES.
(a) In all First-class cricket and in all matches in which teams selected by governing bodies of Cricket are engaged, each wicket shall be nine inches in width, the stumps twenty-eight inches out of the ground and the bails four inches and a half in length.
(b) The use of stumps with metal heads or fittings is a source of danger, and though permissible should not be encouraged.
(c) In a high wind, the captains may agree, with the approval of the umpires, to dispense with the use of bails, in which case Law 20 must be modified.

THE BOWLING CREASE.
7.—The Bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps; eight feet eight inches in length; the stumps in the centre; with a Return crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
(Revised 7th May, 1902.)

NOTE.
(a) The Return crease is shortened for convenience. It must be deemed unlimited in length.

THE POPPING CREASE.
8.—The Popping crease shall be marked four feet from the wicket, parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.

NOTE.
(a) The distance shall be four feet from the centre of the stumps to the inside edge of the Popping crease.

THE GROUND.
9.—The Ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown, or beaten during a match, except before the commencement of each innings and of each day’s play, when, unless the In-Side object, the ground shall be swept and rolled for not more than seven minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman from beating the ground with his bat, nor the batsmen nor bowler from using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foothold.
(Revised 6th May, 1931.)

NOTES.
(a) (i) Prior to tossing for innings, the executive of the ground on which a match is to be played is responsible for the selection and preparation of the wicket.
(ii) The batting side has a right to have the ground swept and rolled for not more than seven minutes immediately before the commencement of each day’s play. It is the duty of the captain to see that his side obtain this advantage. The ground in this Law means the "pitch.” The responsibility of supervising the rolling of the pitch before play will in the first place rest with the umpires, who, however, are not obliged to stand near the wicket in order to supervise the rolling, which must be completed so as to allow the play to commence at the stipulated time.
(b) In week-end starts the wicket shall be mown, under the supervision of the umpires, on the first day on which the match is resumed.
(c) Before and after the actual commencement of play the ground may be protected when necessary, and shall be protected every night during the continuation of a match, but the covering shall be removed each morning, if fine, at 7 o'clock. The covering must not protect more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping crease.
(d) In order to facilitate play at the earliest possible moment in wet weather the umpires shall sec that the foot holes made by the bowlers and batsmen arc cleaned out, dried, and filled up with sawdust at any time during the match, although the game is not actually in progress.

ADDITIONAL LAW FOR AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH AFRICA.
9*.—In the event of rain falling on any day after the commencement of a Match prior to or during the currency of that day’s play the groundman shall cause the wicket to be swept and rolled for not more than ten minutes after the close of that day’s play, at any time before the commencement of the next day’s play, whenever he is of the opinion that such rolling will improve the wicket, and he will use such roller, after consultation with the two captains, as he thinks best calculated to produce that effect. This sweeping and rolling shall not affect the right to sweep and roll provided for in Law 9 of the Laws of Cricket.
(Introduced 3rd May, 1922. Application extended to New Zealand 7th May, 1924, and to South Africa 2nd May, 1928.)

NOTE.
(a) In all First-class matches, and whenever possible in other cases, the executive of the ground will appoint a responsible officer to supervise any rolling carried out under Law 9’.

THE BOWLERS.
“NO BALL.”
10.—The Ball must be bowled; if thrown or jerked either Umpire shall call “No Ball."
(Revised 30th October. 1899.)

NOTE.
(a) It is a “No Ball” if, when about to deliver the ball, the bowler, seeing the striker out of his ground, throws the ball at the striker’s wicket.
11.—The Bowler shall deliver the Ball with one foot on the ground behind the Bowling crease, and within the Return crease, otherwise the Umpire shall call “No Ball.”

NOTES.
(a) A bowler may bowl with both feet behind the Bowling crease provided that one foot is within the Return crease. When part of the bowler’s back foot is grounded on or outside the Return crease the umpire shall call “No Ball,’’ unless the other foot is behind the Bowling crease and within the Return crease. One foot must be grounded behind the Bowling and within the Return crease when the ball is delivered.
(b) If a bowler knock the wicket with his foot in delivering the ball and remove a bail or bails such act docs not in itself justify an umpire in calling "No Ball.”
(c) Many bowlers deliver the ball with the toe of the back foot pointing towards the near wicket, and with the heel towards and over the Return crease. If the bowler so delivers the ball with the heel on the ground, the umpire shall “No Ball” him, the foot not being entirely within the Return crease. If he delivers with the heel raised off the ground and keeps that part of his foot which is on the ground within the Return crease the delivery is allowed as fair.
(d) If the bowler in running up to deliver the ball allows it to slip from his hand before delivery, the umpire, at his discretion, may allow him to bowl again without penalty or interference.
(e) The umpire in this Law refers to the umpire at the bowler’s wicket.

“WIDE BALL.”
12.—If the Bowler shall bowl the Ball so high over or so wide of the wicket, that in the opinion of the Umpire, it is not within reach of the Striker, the Umpire shall call “Wide Ball.”

NOTES.
(a) The test for the umpire to apply in deciding if the ball is wide is whether it is within reach of the striker.
When a ball has been delivered but remains stationary before reaching the striker no runs can be added to the score, unless it has been struck by the striker.
The striker has a right to hit the ball without interference by the field. The umpire must decide if the ball has been “delivered.”
(b) If the striker hit a ball which has been called “Wide” the call shall be ignored.
(c) When only one run has been made front a “Wide Ball” the batsmen do not cross over to the positions they were in before the run was made.
(d) When a “Wide” is called the ball does not on that account become “dead” and the batsman may be out under Laws 23, 25, 28, 29 and 30.

“THE OVER.”
13.—The Ball shall be bowled in Overs of six balls from each wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled, and the ball is finally settled in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s hands, the Umpire shall call “Over.” Neither a “No Ball” nor “Wide Ball” shall be reckoned as one of the “Over.”
(For Australia and New Zealand only, in lines 1 and 2 for “six” substitute “eight.”)
(Revised 1st May, 1889; 2nd May, 1900; 3rd May, 1922; 7th May, 1924.)

NOTES.
(a) It is customary for the umpire to call “Over” after the last ball of the over, when it is clear that both sides are satisfied to consider the ball as "dead,” even though it has not finally settled in the bowler’s or wicket-keeper’s hands.
(b) This Law should be read with Law 16, in which, though provision is made that the striker may obtain runs from a "No Ball,” the fact remains that neither a “No Dall” nor "Wide Ball” shall be reckoned as one of the over. Although not counted in the over, "No Balls” and “Wides” shall be recorded in their proper place on the score sheet.
(c) A ball shall not count as one of the over nor shall any runs be scored in the following circumstances:—
(i) If both bails have been blown off the striker’s wicket before he plays his stroke.
(ii) If the bowler in running up to deliver the ball allows it to slip from his hand before delivery.
(d) It is the umpire’s and not the scorer’s duty to call “Over.” At the end of an over the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall distinctly call "Over” before leaving the wicket.
(e) (i) An over should always be begun if “time” has not been reached and the umpires shall not call "Time” before the over is finished except as hereafter provided.
An over should always be finished, unless a wicket fall within two minutes of “time” (see Law 45), or unless there is a local rule extending the time.
(ii) If a wicket fall within two minutes of "time” the umpires shall call “Time,” unless the incoming batsman claims his right to bat for the time remaining. If a wicket fall after “time” has been reached the umpires shall call “Time.”
(f) If a bowler is injured so that he cannot finish the over he has begun, the over shall be regarded as completed.
(g) A bowler can bowl round and over the wicket in the same over; but he shall give the batsman an opportunity of taking a fresh guard. The same remarks apply to a change from over to underarm bowling, or vice versa.
The umpire is justified in calling “No Ball” in the event of contravention of this instruction.

CHANGING ENDS.
14.—The Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as he pleases, provided only that he does not bowl two Overs consecutively in one innings.
(Revised 1st May, 1889.)
15.—The Bowler may require the Batsman at the wicket from which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may direct.

SCORING OF “NO BALLS” AND “WIDES.”
16.—The Striker may hit a “No Ball,” and whatever runs result shall be added to his score; but he shall not be out from a “No Bail,” unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27, 29, 30. All runs made from a “No Ball,” otherwise than from the bat, shall be scored “No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall be added to that score. From a “Wide Ball,” as many runs as are run shall be added to the score as “Wide Balls,” and if no run be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
(See Laws 13 and 28 and Notes thereto.)

NOTES.
(a) A batsman cannot be stumped off a “No Ball” (Law 16). The Laws of Cricket clearly make a distinction between the wicket-keeper and the fieldsmen and between cases of "stumping” and “run out” (see Laws 23 and 28).
When a “No Ball” has been called it must be left to the umpire to decide, on the facts before him, whether the case is one of "stumping” (under Law 23) or “run out” (under Law 28).
(b) When a run is made by the bat off a “No Ball," only the run to the batsman should be scored and not the **No Ball” as well. When a run has been made off a *’No Ball,” the run should be added to the score of the striker although the ball has been caught If one run is attempted and the batsman is run out, the “No Ball” alone counts.
. If runs are made off a “No Ball,” although the runs are scored and not the “No Ball,” the bowler is allowed another delivery.
(c) When “Byes” or “Overthrows” are run from a “Wide” they are scored as "Wides.”

“BYE” AND “LEG BYE.”
17.—If the ball, not having been called “Wide” or “No Ball,” pass the Striker without touching his bat, or person, and any runs be obtained, the Umpire shall call “Bye”; but if the ball touch any part of the Striker's person (hand excepted) and any run be obtained, the Umpire shall call “Leg Bye,” such runs to be scored “Byes” and “Leg Byes” respectively.

NOTE.
(a) If the striker kicks the ball wilfully, no runs shall be scored.

“PLAY.”
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings, the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall call “Play”; from that time no trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground between the wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person until the next batsman shall come in.

NOTE.
(a) Trial balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, are not allowed.

THE BATSMEN.
“OUT OF HIS GROUND.”
19.—A Batsman shall be held to be “out of his ground,” unless his bat in hand, or some part of his person be grounded within the line of the Popping crease.

NOTE.
(a) It is sufficient if part of the batsman’s foot is grounded within the line. If the foot is on the line, but no part is within, the batsman would be “out of his ground.”

WICKET IS “DOWN.”
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “down,” when either of the bails is struck off, or if both bails be off, when a stump is struck out of the ground.

NOTES.
(a) The wicket is “down” under this Law if any part of either bail is “struck off” the top of the wicket.
An umpire is justified in ruling that part of a bail has been “struck off,” if as a result of the wicket being hit any part of either bail has been disturbed from its original position on the top of the stumps.
(b) If one bail is off, it is sufficient to remove the remaining one with the ball in order to stump or run a batsman out.
(c) Although the Law says nothing about the stumps being pulled out, it is customary to run a batsman out in this way when the bails are off; but the ball must be in the fieldsman’s hand when he uses it for this purpose. (See also Law 28).
(d) If one bail has fallen from the stumps, and a ball, having been either bowled or thrown in, strikes a stump without displacing the remaining bail, the wicket is not "down" unless that stump is struck out of the ground.
(e) If, owing to the strength of the wind, the captains have agreed to dispense with the use of bails (see Law 6, Note (c)), the decision as to when a wicket is “down” is one for the umpires to decide on the facts before them. (In such circumstances the wicket would be held to be “down” even though a stump has not been struck out of the ground.)
(f) If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play, the umpires are not justified in remaking the wicket until the ball has become “dead.” A fieldsman, however, is not debarred from remaking the wicket in such circumstances.

“BOWLED.”
The Striker is Out—
21.—If the wicket be bowled down, even if the ball first touch the Striker’s bat or person;—“Bowled.”

NOTES.
(a) An umpire is justified in giving the striker out "Bowled” when a stump is bowled down, even though the bails by some mischance remain in position.
(b) The striker having played the ball is out “Bowled” if he then kicks the ball on to his wicket.

“CAUGHT.”
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to the body of the catcher;—“Caught.”
(See Note to Law 32.)

NOTES.
(a) The ball must not touch the ground before it is held; but the hand holding the ball may touch the ground in effecting the catch.
(b) When a fieldsman catches a ball and falls and the ball touches the ground, it is a question of fact for the umpire to decide whether or not the catch was completed before the ball touched the ground.
(c) When a batsman plays a ball on to the ground and in order to prevent it hitting the wicket, after touching the ground, he strikes it again and the ball is caught, the batsman is not out. But if he hit the ball a second time before it touches the ground and is caught, he would be out under this Law.
(d) A batsman is out if caught off a ball which before striking the bat had hit his pad.
(e) If no boundaries have been arranged a striker can be caught off a tree, hedge or building.
(f) The striker is out if the ball is “hugged to the body of the catcher“ even though he has not touched it with his hands. Should the ball lodge in the fieldsman’s clothing, or in the top of the wicket-keeper’s pads, this will amount to its being “hugged to the body of the catcher.”
(g) The striker is out “Caught,” although before the catch is held the ball after touching a fieldsman has removed a bail at the non-striker’s end, the non-striker being out of his ground.

“STUMPED.”
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched by the bat or hand, the Striker be out of his ground, and the wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the bail, or with hand or arm with ball in hand;—“Stumped.”

NOTES.
(a) If the ball rebounds off the pad or person of the wicket-keeper, without having first touched the bat or hand of the striker, and the striker is out of his ground, the decision shall be “Stumped” and not “Run Out.”
(b) It is sufficient for the wicket-keeper to remove one bail in order to stump a batsman.
It is not out if he knocks the bails off with his foot or with an arm or hand not holding the ball.

“L.B.W.”
24.—Or, if with any part of his person (except his hand) which is between wicket and wicket he intercept a ball which, in the opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket, shall have been pitched in a straight line from the Bowler’s wicket to the Striker’s wicket or shall have been pitched on the off side of the Striker’s wicket and would have hit it;—“Leg before wicket.”
(Revised 5th May, 1937.)

NOTES.
(a) There are four considerations which an umpire must bear in mind:
(i) Would the ball have hit the wicket?
(ii) Did it pitch on the offside of the striker’s wicket or in a straight line between wicket and wicket?
(iii) Was it part of the batsman’s person other than the hand, which first intercepted the ball?
(iv) Was that part of the batsman’s person between wicket and wicket at the moment of impact?
If all these questions are answered in the affirmative the batsman is out.
(b) A batsman may be out L.B.W., although the bowler is bowling round the wicket, if the case comes within this Law.
(c) It is immaterial whether the ball breaks or not. It is sometimes only possible for a bowler bowling round the wicket to obtain an L.B.W. with a breaking ball.
(d) The striker shall not be given out L.B.W. if the ball has touched his bat or hand before hitting his person. (See Law 27.)
(e) The umpire is justified in giving the batsman out L.B.W., if in playing at the ball the striker’s hat blew off and deflected the course of the ball which otherwise would have hit his wicket, all the requirements of Law 24 having been fulfilled.
(f) The word “person” in the Law includes the striker’s dress.

“HIT WICKET.”
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with his bat or any part of his person or dress;—“Hit Wicket.”

NOTES.
(a) If, in making a second stroke to keep the ball out of his wicket, the striker hit down his wicket as above, he is out.
(b) If, while playing at the ball, but not otherwise, the striker’s hat or cap falls on the wicket and dislodges a bail, he is out.
(c) If, while playing at the ball, a part of the striker’s bat breaks his wicket, he is out.
(d) A batsman is not out for breaking the wicket either with his bat or person when in the act of running.

“OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD.”
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught;—“Obstructing the field.”

NOTES.
(a) It should be noted that it is the striker who is out if this Law is infringed.
(b) The correct entry in the score book when the striker is given out under this Law is “Obstructing the field,” and the bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

“HIT THE BALL TWICE.”
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of his person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done for the purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with his bat or any part of his person, except his hands;—“Hit the ball twice.”

NOTES.
(a) It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball has been struck “wilfully” for some purpose other than that of guarding the wicket. The fact that a run is attempted may be evidence of the batsman’s intention to take advantage of the second stroke, and the umpire is entitled to regard it as such, but it is not conclusive.
(b) The spirit of this Law is infringed by the striker, if, after playing the ball, he knocks it back to the bowler, although his wicket is in no danger.
(c) If the ball has been lawfully struck twice and an overthrow is made, the striker is entitled to the runs which follow.
(d) A striker may be out for hitting the ball twice, although no run is attempted. (See also Law 22, Note (c).)

“RUN OUT.”
Either Batsman is Out—
28.—If in running, or at any other time, when the ball is in play he be out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down by the ball after touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, with ball in hand, of any fieldsman;—“Run out.” But the Striker may not be out thus, unless the ball has touched the bat or hand, when, in playing at a “No Ball” he be out of his ground and the wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with hand or arm with ball in hand.
(Revised 1st May, 1912.)
(See Law 31, and Notes to Laws 20 and 35.)

NOTES.
(a) For a definition of “out of his ground” see Law 19 and Note.
(b) At any time when the ball is in play either batsman can be “run out” by any fieldsman, including the bowler.
(c) It is not out if the striker hits the ball into the opposite wickets—the other batsman being out of his ground—unless the ball had been touched by a fieldsman after being hit and before striking the wickets.
(d) It is sufficient for a fieldsman, either by throwing, or with the ball in the hand used for the purpose, to remove one bail in order to “run out” a batsman.

“HANDLED THE BALL.”
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball while in play unless at the request of the opposite side;—“Handled the ball.”

NOTE.
(a) The correct entry in the score book when a batsman is given out under this Law is “Handled the ball,” and the bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

“OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD.”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman;—“Obstructing the field.”
(See Law 26, Note (b).)

NOTE.
(a) The umpire must decide on the facts before him if the obstruction was “wilful.”

“BATSMEN CROSSING.”
31.—If the batsmen have crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket which is put down is out; if they have not crossed he that has left the wicket which is put down is out.

“RUNS.”
32.—The Striker being caught no run shall be scored. A Batsman being run out, that run which was being attempted shall not be scored.
(See Notes to Law 22.)

NOTE.
(a) Although that run which is being attempted shall not be scored, the remaining batsman does not resume his position at the wicket he has left, if he and his partner have crossed.

“DEAD BALL.”
33A.—A Batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be “Dead.”
33B.—If the Ball, whether struck with the bat or not, lodges in a Batsman's clothing, the ball shall become “Dead."
(Introduced 3rd May, 1899.)

“LOST BALL.”
34.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any fieldsman may call “Lost Ball,” when the ball shall be “Dead”; six runs shall be added to the score; but if more than six runs have been run before “Lost Ball” has been called, as many runs as have been run shall be scored.

NOTE.
(a) A lost ball should be replaced by one in a similar condition.

“DEAD BALL, ETC.”
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in the Wicket-keeper’s or Bowler’s hand, it shall be “Dead”; but when the Bowler is about to deliver the ball, if the Batsman at his wicket be out of his ground before actual delivery, the said Bowler may run him out; but if the Bowler throw at that wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “No Ball.”

NOTES.
(a) Whether the ball is “finally settled” is a question of fact for the umpire only to decide. (See Law 13, Note (a).)
(b) A bowler may run a batsman out, without having delivered the ball, in any way authorized by the Laws. He may have passed the Bowling crease in his run, or may change the ball from one hand to the other, before throwing at the wicket or knocking off the bails. The bails may be knocked off from either side of the wickets.
(c) If the bowler throws the ball at the wicket with the object of running out the batsman at his end, such a throw does not constitute a “No Ball,” and the ball not having been delivered does not count as one of the over. If, however, runs result from such action on the part of the bowler, they are to be credited to “No Balls” in the score book in accordance with Law 16.

GENERAL NOTES ON LAWS 33 A TO 35 INCLUSIVE.
(d) A ball can only become ”dead” under Laws 33A, 33B, 34, 35 including Note(f), 41 and 50, or on the call of a boundary.
(e) A ball does not become “dead” when the bails are off or the wickets struck down or because an unsuccessful appeal has been made to the umpire.
(f) The ball does not become “dead” on merely hitting the umpire unless it lodges in his pocket or clothing.
(g) Lodging in a batsman’s clothing includes practically all ways in which a ball can be said to lodge in or against his clothing.
(h) The ball ceases to be “dead” when the bowler begins his run or bowling action.

BATSMAN RETIRING FROM HIS WICKET.
36.—A Batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return to it to complete his innings after another has been in, without the consent of the opposite side.

NOTE.
(a) When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some other unavoidable cause, his innings must be counted as “Not out.”

SUBSTITUTES.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between wickets for any player, who may during the match be incapacitated from illness or injury, but for no other reason, except with the consent of the opposite side.

NOTES.
(a) It is well to remember that a side which loses a player’s services through illness or injury, brought about during the match, is entitled to a substitute, whereas in other circumstances consent is necessary, which must depend upon the courtesy.
of the opposing captain.
(b) A side may bat with its full number, provided no disqualification rule applies, even though substitutes have been allowed to field. To prevent any abuse of this provision, and other disputes, the captains, before tossing, should exchange lists of the players.
(c) There is no law prohibiting a player from bowling because he has had a substitute to run for him.
(d) No substitute shall be allowed to bat or bowl.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the consent of the opposite side shall be obtained as to the person to act as substitute, and the place in the field which he shall take.
39.—In case any substitute shall be allowed to run between wickets, the Striker may be run out if either he or his substitute be out of his ground. If the Striker be out of his ground while the ball is in play, that wicket which he has left may be put down and the Striker given out, although the other batsman may have made good the ground at that end, and the Striker and his substitute at the other end.
NOTES.
(n) The distinction between the words “Striker” and “Batsman” should be appreciated. When the injured batsman is not the striker he is subject only to such penalty under this Law as is incurred by his runner.
(b) The intention of this Law is that the injured striker’s ground, when he has a substitute to run for him, is at the wicket-keeper’s end. He himself can only be run out at that end as provided for in the latter part of the Law.
40.—A Batsman is liable to be out for any infringement of the Laws by his substitute.
THE FIELDSMAN.
41.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be “Dead” and five runs added to the run or runs already made; if no runs have been made five shall be added.
(Revised 6th May, 1936.)
NOTE.
(a) The five runs are a penalty and the batsmen do not change ends.

14
WICKET-KEEPER.
42.—The Wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket. If he shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping, before it has passed the wicket, or, if he shall incommode the Striker by any noise, or motion, or if any part of his person be over or before the wicket, the Striker shall not be out, excepting under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
NOTE.
(a) A wicket-keeper may run a batsman out by going in front of the wicket (Law 28) The umpire must decide from the facts if the act is legal.
DUTIES OF UMPIRES.
43.—The Umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light for play; all disputes shall be determined by them, and if they disagree the actual state of things shall continue.
(See Law 3.)
NOTES.
(o) Fair and Unfair Play.
(i) Under this Law the umpires are entitled to intervene without appeal in the case of unfair play. (See Law 3, Note (</).)
(ii) Umpires shall not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by appeals from such of the field who were not in a position to form a judgment on the point appealed upon, or by tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on an appeal for a catch at the wicket, without waiting for the decision. Umpires, being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, must remember that such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accordance with the spirit in which cricket should be played.
(iii) In the event of a player criticising or showing resentment on or off the field to the decision of an umpire, the umpires should in the first place request the captains to take action, and if this proves ineffective, report the incident forthwith to the executives of the teams taking part in the match. (Umpires in First-class or Minor County matches are required to report all such cases to the Secretary of the M.C.C., after first informing the captains during the match of their intention to make the report.)
(iv) The special attention of umpires is called to Law 48, which directs them to call “No Ball," unless absolutely satisfied of the fairness of the delivery.
(v) It is illegal for the bowler to lift the seam of the ball in order to obtain

a better hold. The ball, in such a case, should be shown to the umpire who should call for another ball and warn the captain that the practice is unfair. The use of resin by bowlers is also unfair.
(vi) The persistent and systematic bowling of fast short-pitched balls at the batsman standing clear of his wicket is “unfair,” and if, in the opinion of the umpire at the bowler's end, unfair bowling of this type takes place he shall adopt the following procedure:—
1. As soon as he decides that such bowling is becoming persistent he shall forthwith “caution" the bowler
2. If this "caution” is ineffective, he shall inform the captain of the fielding side and the other umpire of what has occurred.
3. Should the above prove ineffective, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall:—
(i) At the first repetition call “dead ball” and the over shall be regarded as completed.
(ii) Request the captain of the fielding side to take the bowler off forthwith.
(iii) Report the occurrence to the captain of the batting side, as soon as an interval of play takes place.
A bowler who has been “taken off” as above shall not bowl again during the same innings.
15
(d) Ground, Weather and Light.
General.
(i) Only when the captains (or their representatives) disagree or prefer to leave the decision to the umpires does the responsibility of deciding as to the fitness of the ground, including the wicket, the weather and the light, for play rest with the umpires.
(ii) The umpires are not to be biased by the opinions of either side, still less are they to allow themselves to be influenced by the impatience of the spec- tators for a resumption of the game, and are not to be induced, by the public interest in a particular match, to declare the ground fit for play, unless they would consider the ground, weather, or light, fit under any circumstances.
Ground.
(iii) At the commencement of a match, the umpires may be appealed to by

either side as to the fitness of the ground for play.
Should they not agree, play will not commence until they are agreed.
The ground is unfit for play when water stands on the surface, or when it is so wet, muddy, or slippery as to deprive the bowlers of a reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the power of free movement.
Umpires are not justified in deciding the ground unfit for play merely because the grass is wet and the ball would, in consequence, be slippery.
(iv) In the case of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has ceased, the captains, or if the decision has been left to them, the umpires, shall, immedi- ately, without further instruction, inspect the wicket, unaccompanied by any of the players, and decide upon its fitness. Should it prove unfit, they shall continue to inspect at intervals, until they decide that it is fit for play, when they shall call upon the players to resume the game.
Weather and Light.
(v) A batsman at the wickets and the captain of the fielding side shall consult as to the fitness of weather and light for play, and if they are unable to agree the question shall be determined by the umpires. Should play be suspended, and the conditions later improve, the umpires shall, without waiting for instructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and change ends after each side has had one innings.
NOTES.
(a) If a ball hit or pass over or through the boundary or is carried over it by the fieldsman the umpire shall call a boundary hit, but a fieldsman may lean against the boundary to catch or field a ball, and if a fieldsman when standing within the playing ground, even though he be touching the boundary, catch a ball outside the boundary the batsman shall be given out.
If a fieldsman grounds any part of his body on or over the boundary line while he has the ball in hand, the umpire shall signal "Boundary hit.”
(b) When the ball touches the boundary it becomes “dead.”
(c) The umpire is not a boundary.
(d) It is for the umpire to decide if a hit has reached the boundary.

(e) If a seat or other obstacle other than the sight screens is within the playing area, and such obstacle is struck by the ball, it cannot be regarded as a boundary unless so arranged by the umpires.
(/) When four runs are allowed for a boundary hit it is the practice for umpires to allow six runs for all hits that drop over and clear of the boundary line or fence, even though the ball has been touched by a fieldsman in an attempt to make a catch.
It is not the custom to allow six runs when a ball hits a sight screen full pitch, if the latter is positioned on or inside the boundary.
(g) When a batsman has actually made more runs for a boundary hit than have been arranged for the boundary, Law 2 will prevail, and the runs completed shall be scored.
16
(A) The runs which have been arranged for a boundary hit are to be added to the runs already made should a fieldsman wilfully cause the ball to reach the boundary. If, however, the fieldsman involuntarily causes the ball to reach the boundary, only the value of the boundary shall be credited to the striker.
(i) In the case of a boundary overthrow, in addition to the ordinary boundary allowance, all runs completed and, provided the batsmen had crossed at the moment the fieldsman threw the ball, the run in course of completion, count as runs.
INTERVALS.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each Striker to come in, and ten minutes between each innings. When they shall call “Play” the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
NOTES.
(u) The “in-going” batsman should meet the “out-coming” batsman before he enters the pavilion.
It is the duty of the captains to see that this Law is strictly observed.
(b) The effect of this Law is that the umpire shall decide whether the delay of the individual amounts to a refusal of the batting side to play. It provides a specific penalty in such a case but none for the individual.

(c) The interval for luncheon shall be 40 minutes. In the event of the last wicket falling within two minutes of the time arranged for luncheon, the game shall be resumed at the usual hour, no allowance being made for the 10 minutes between the innings.
APPEALS.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to by the other side.
NOTES.
(n) An appeal, *'How’s that?” covers all ways of being out (within the jurisdiction of the umpire appealed to), unless a specific way of getting out is stated bj the person asking.
(b) The decision “Out” shall be signalled by raising the index finger above the head. Besides signalling, the umpire shall call distinctly for the information of the players. If the batsman is not out, the umpire shall call “Not out."
(c) If a batsman thinks he is out and walks away, the umpire is not required to intervene save on appeal or should he consider a decision has been misconstrued.
On giving a decision the umpire should make sure that the batsman under- stands what the decision is.
(t/) An umpire may alter his decision if, in the hurry of the moment or by a slip of the tongue he has given a wrong one, provided that such alteration is made promptly.
JURISDICTION OF UMPIRES.
47.—The Umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be appealed to before the other Umpire in all cases, except in those of stumping, hit wicket, run out at the Striker’s wicket, or arising out of Law 42, but in any case in which an Umpire is unable to give a decision, he shall appeal to the other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
NOTES.
(a) When either umpire has given a batsman “Not out” the other umpire may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction, subject to an observance of Law 50.
(b) An umpire is only justified in appealing to the other umpire when he is unable to decide, owing to his having been prevented from seeing the occurrence on which the appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the other umpire in cases

on which he could give a decision, merely because he is unwilling to give that decision. If, after consultation, he is still in any doubt, the principle laid down in Law 43, that ’*the actual state of things shall continue,” shall be followed and in consequence, the decision should be in favour of the batsman.
17
NO BALL.
48.—If either Umpire be not satisfied of the absolute fairness of the delivery of any ball, he shall call “No Ball.*’
(Revised 30th October, 1899.)
CALLING “NO BALL’’ AND “WIDE.”
48A.—The Umpire shall take especial care to call “No Ball” instantly upon delivery; “Wide Ball” as soon as it shall have passed the striker.
NOTE.
(a) If an umpire has called “No Ball” when the ball has not been delivered, he should revoke his decision.
SHORT RUNS.
49.—If either batsman run a short run, the Umpire shall call “One short*’ and the run shall not be scored.
NOTES.
(a) When a batsman takes his guard in front of the Popping crease and a run is made from that point, the umpire does not call “One short.”
(b) When a short run is called the batsmen do not cross over to the positions they would have been in if the run had not been attempted.
(c) If two or more runs are attempted, and the umpire calls ”One short,” only one run is deducted, although the fact that the batsman failed to complete one run shortens the distance necessary to complete the subsequent run.
APPEALS.
50.—After the Umpire has called “Over” the ball is “Dead,” but an appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is out, such appeal however shall not be made after the delivery of the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
NOTES.
(a) No act on the part of the fielding side can cause a batsman to be out after the umpire has called “Over,” but an appeal may be made within the allotted time.
(6) An appeal may not be made after “Time” has been called and the bails have been removed by both umpires. “Time” shall be called before the players leave the field for any interval of play, as well as at the close of play. (See Law 13,

Note (c).)
51.—No Umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No Umpire shall be changed during a match, unless with the consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law 51; then either side may dismiss him.
FOLLOWING INNINGS.
53.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs (in Australia 200 runs) in a match of three days or more, or by 100 runs in a two days’ match, shall have the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
(Revised 10th July, 1894; 2nd May, 1900; 3rd May, 1922: 4th May, 1927.)
18
DECLARATIONS.
54.—The In-side may declare their innings at an end in a match of three days or more, at any time on the second day; in a two days’ match the Captain of the batting side has power t6 declare his innings at a close at any time; but such declaration may not be made on the first day later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the hour agreed on for drawing stumps; in a one day match at any time.
(.Introduced 1st May, 1889. Revised 2nd May, 1900; 2nd May, 1906; 4th May.
1910: 4th May, 1927.)
NOTES.
(a) If a side declare its innings during the luncheon interval, it must do so within fiftccn minutes after the commencement of such interval otherwise an extra seven minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(6) If a side declare its innings closed in the morning before play commbnucs. it must do so in sufficient time to enable the other side to choose the roller it prefers. otherwise an extra seven minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(c) A declaration of a first innings docs not preclude a second innings.
(rf) For the purpose of stating the result of a match, an innings declared at an end is regarded as completed and the victory, if accomplished, is in runs and not by wickets.
55.—Where there is no play on the first day of a three day match Laws 53 and 54 shall apply as if the match were a two day match, and if in a three day match there is no play on the
first two
days, Law 54 and Law 1 “one day matches” shall apply as if the
match were a one day match. Where there is no play on the first
day of a two day match, Law 54 and Law 1 “one day matches”
shall apply as if the match were a one day match.
(Introduced 6th May, 1914. Revised 7th May, 1919.)
ONE-DAY MATCHES.
I.—The side which bats first and leads by 75 runs shall have
the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
2.—The Match, unless played out, shall be decided by the First
Innings. Prior to the commencement of a match it may be agreed:—
that the Over consist of 5 or 6 balls.
NOTES.
(a) A tie is included in the words “played out.”
(See also Law of Cricket No. 2, Note (b).)
(b) If the captains are unable to agree, the umpires shall decide if
there is
sufficient time left to carry the game to a further issue after each
side has completed
an innings.
(c) For "Declaration" in one-day matches, see Law of Cricket No.
54.

SINGLE WICKET.
The following Laws are supplementary to the Laws of Cricket, which as
far
as they are applicable, must be followed:—
1. One Wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a Bowling stump
opposite
to it, at a distance of twenty-two yards. The Bowling crease shall be
in a line
with the Bowling stump: and drawn according to Law 7.
2. When there shall be less than five players on a side, Bounds
shall be placed
twenty-two yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
3. The ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the striker to
a run,
which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the Bowling stump or
crease in a
line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them, and
return to
the Popping crease.
4. When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on
the ground
behind the Popping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “No Hit,”
and no run
shall be scored.
5. When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither
Byes, Leg
Byes, nor Overthrows shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught
out behind
the wicket, nor stumped.
6. The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the
ground be-
tween the wicket and the Bowling stump, or between the Bowling stump
and the
Bounds; the striker may run till the ball be so returned.
7. After the striker shall have made one run, if he start again he
must touch
the Bowling stump or crease, and turn before the ball cross the ground
to entitle
him to another.
8.—The striker shall be entitled to three runs for Lost Ball, and the
same
number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with any
part of
his person.
9. When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall
be no
Bounds. All Hits, Byes, Leg Byes, and Overthrows shall then be allowed.
10. There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled in
Overs, but no
more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
NOTES FOR SCORERS AND UMPIRES
1. (a) The scorers must accept the umpires’ signals and
instructions, and
though it is no part of their duty to dictate to the umpires, mutual
consultation
to clear up doubtful points is at all times permissible.
(b) During the progress of the game, if two scorers have been
appointed,
they should frequently check the total to ensure that the score sheets
agree.
(c) The umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by the
scorer
before allowing the game to proceed, and in addition to signalling the
umpire
should call distinctly for the information of the players.
(d) The following method of entering “No Balls” and “Wides” (Law
16)
in the score sheet is recommended —
(i) If no run is scored from the bat off a “No Ball,” the latter
should be
entered as an “Extra,” and a dot placed in the bowling analysis with
a
circle round it to show that the ball does not count in the over.
(ii) If runs are scored from the bat off a “No Ball,” they should be
credited
to the striker, and entered in the bowling analysis with a circle round
the
figure. Such runs count against the bowler in his analysis even though
the ball does not count in the over.
(iii) Whatever runs are scored from “Wide Balls” are entered as “Extras,”
and inserted in the bowler’s analysis with a cross to indicate that the
ball does not count in the over.
2. The following code of signalling between the umpires and the
scorers
has been approved:—
Boundaries shall be signalled by waving the hand from side to side.
A boundary six shall be signalled by raising both arms above the head.
Byes shall be signalled by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg Byes shall be signalled by raising the leg and touching it with the
hand.
Wides shall be signalled by extending both arms horizontally.
No Balls shall be signalled by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “Out” shall be signalled by raising the index finger
above
the head.
”One Short” shall be signalled by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest shoulder with the tips of the fingers
of
one hand.
3. If the above instructions are properly carried out, cases of
disagreement
at regards the scores and the results of matches should not occur.
It is, however, important that the captains should satisfy themselves
of the
correctness of the scores on the conclusion of play, as errors cannot
subsequently
be corrected.
It should be noted that, in general, by accepting the result notified
by the
scorers, the captain of the losing side has thereby acquiesced in the
“playing out
or giving up” of the match as stated in Law 2.

REGULATIONS FOR DRYING THE
WICKETS AND GROUND IN FIRST-
CLASS MATCHES IN ENGLAND.
N.B.—These regulations are primarily designed for First-class Cricket,
and their
application in whole or in part In other grades of English Cricket is
at the
discretion of the ground, etc., authorities.
1 Except as provided below, the existing regulations in regard to the
rolling of the wicket and the fitness of the ground for play shall
apply. (See
Laws 9 and 43.)
2. (i) To enable play to proceed with the least possible delay after
rain,
the groundman shall adopt every practical means to protect or rid the
surface
of the ground, other than the pitch, of water or dampness at any time
except while
play is in progress. (The pitch will be regarded as 10 ft. in width,
i.e., 5 ft. on
each side from the centre stump.)
(ti) Prior to tossing for choice of innings, the artificial drying of
the pitch,
as defined above, shall be at the discretion of the groundman, but
thereafter,
and throughout the match, the drying process shall be carried out only
on the
instructions and under the supervision of the umpires, who shall be
empowered
to have the wicket dried, without reference to the captains, at any
time they are
of opinion that it is unfit for play.
(iii) In wet weather, the umpires shall see that the foot-holes made by
the
bowlers and batsmen are cleaned, dried and filled up with sawdust at
any time
during the match, although the game is not actually in progress.
The groundman, without instructions from the umpires, may also clean
out in
this way foot-holes, provided they are not on any part of the pitch (as
defined
in (b) (i) above), more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping
creases.
The drying of foot-holes on the pitch itself shall be supervised by the
umpires,
but, in the interval between close of play on any day and its further
resumption
the groundman may protect against further rain, marks made by the
bowlers, even
though they be more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping creases,
provided
they are not between wicket and wicket, with loose sawdust, which,
however,
shall be removed prior to the resumption of play.
(iv) The umpires shall ascertain from the groundman before the
commence-
ment of a match, what equipment is available for drying the wicket
artificially.
Before drying the wicket the umpires shall have regard to the condition
of the
outfield and the prospects of its fitness for play. The drier shall be
removed
when they are satisfied that the wicket is fit for play, or as they may
direct.
Any roller may be used, if the umpires think desirable but only (except
as
laid down in paragraph (b) (v)) for the purpose of drying the wicket
and making
it fit for play, and not otherwise. This would allow umpires to roll
the wicket
after drying it, say with a light roller, for a minute or two, should
they consider
it desirable.
(v) When the artificial drying of the wicket, under the supervision
of the
umpires, coincides with any interval during the match, after the toss
for choice of
innings, the umpires, and not the captain of the batting side, shall
select the
roller to be used.
(vi) The fact that the umpires may have dried the wicket artificially
does not
take the decision as regards the fitness of the wicket and ground for
play out of the
hands of the captains, even though the umpires may have selected the
roller to
be used for the drying process. Law 43, Note (b) (i) is applicable in
such cases.
