5
THE LAWS OF CRICKET
THE PREAMBLE - THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket is a game that owes much of its unique appeal to the fact
that it should be played not only within its Laws but also within the
Spirit of the Game. Any action which is seen to abuse this spirit
causes injury to the game itself. The major responsibility for ensuring
the spirit of fair play rests with the captains.
1. There are two Laws which place the responsibility for the team’s
conduct firmly on the captain.
Responsibility of captains
The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play
is conducted within the Spirit of the Game as well as within
the Laws.
Player’s conduct
In the event of a player failing to comply with instructions by
an umpire, or criticising by word or action the decisions of an
umpire, or showing dissent, or generally behaving in a manner
which might bring the game into disrepute, the umpire concerned
shall in the first place report the matter to the other umpire and to
the player's captain, and instruct the latter to take action.
2. Fair and unfair play
According to the Laws the umpires are the sole judges of fair and
unfair play.
The umpires may intervene at any time and it is the responsibility
of the captain to take action where required.
3. The umpires are authorised to intervene in cases of:
■ Time wasting
■ Damaging the pitch
■ Dangerous or unfair bowling
■ Tampering with the ball
■ Any other action that they consider to be unfair
6
4. The Spirit of the Game involves RESPECT for:
■ Your opponents
■ Your own captain and team
■ The role of the umpires
■ The game’s traditional values
5. It is against the Spirit of the Game:
■ To dispute an umpire's decision by word, action or gesture
■ To direct abusive language towards an opponent or umpire
■ To indulge in cheating or any sharp practice, for instance:
(a) to appeal knowing that the batsman is not out
(b) to advance towards an umpire in an aggressive manner when
appealing
(c) to seek to distract an opponent either verbally or by harassment
with persistent clapping or unnecessary noise under the guise
of enthusiasm and motivation of one's own side
6. Violence
There is no place for any act of violence on the field of play.
7. Players
Captains and umpires together set the tone for the conduct of
a cricket match. Every player is expected to make an important
contribution to this.
7
The players, umpires and scorers in a game of cricket may be of either
gender and the Laws apply equally to both. The use, throughout the
text, of pronouns indicating the male gender is purely for brevity.
Except
where specifically stated otherwise, every provision of the Laws is to
be
read as applying to women and girls equally as to men and boys.
LAW 1 THE PLAYERS
1. Number of players
A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one
of whom shall be captain.
By agreement a match may be played between sides of more or
less than eleven players, but not more than eleven players may
field at any time.
2. Nomination of players
Each captain shall nominate his players in writing to one of the
umpires before the toss. No player may be changed after the
nomination without the consent of the opposing captain.
3. Captain
If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act
for him.
(a) If a captain is not available during the period in which the toss
is to take place, then the deputy must be responsible for the
nomination of the players, if this has not already been done,
and for the toss. See 2 above and Law 12.4 (The toss).
(b) At any time after the toss, the deputy must be one of the
nominated players.
4. Responsibility of captains
The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is
conducted within the spirit and traditions of the game as well as
within the Laws. See The Preamble - The Spirit of Cricket and
Law 42.1 (Fair and unfair play - responsibility of captains).
8
LAW 2 SUBSTITUTES AND RUNNERS;
BATSMAN OR FIELDER LEAVING THE FIELD;
BATSMAN RETIRING;
BATSMAN COMMENCING INNINGS
1. Substitutes and runners
(a) If the umpires are satisfied that a player has been injured or
become ill after the nomination of the players, they shall allow
that player to have
(i) a substitute acting instead of him in the field.
(ii) a runner when batting.
Any injury or illness that occurs at any time after the
nomination of the players until the conclusion of the match
shall be allowable, irrespective of whether play is in progress
or not.
(b) The umpires shall have discretion, for other wholly
acceptable reasons, to allow a substitute for a fielder, or a
runner for a batsman, at the start of the match or at any
subsequent time.
(c) A player wishing to change his shirt, boots, etc. must leave
the field to do so. No substitute shall be allowed for him.
2. Objection to substitutes
The opposing captain shall have no right of objection to any player
acting as a substitute on the field, nor as to where the substitute
shall field. However, no substitute shall act as wicket-keeper. See
3 below.
3. Restrictions on the role of substitutes
A substitute shall not be allowed to bat or bowl nor to act as
wicket-keeper or as captain on the field of play.
4. A player for whom a substitute has acted
A player is allowed to bat, bowl or field even though a substitute
has previously acted for him.
9
5. Fielder absent or leaving the field
If a fielder fails to take the field with his side at the start of the
match or at any later time, or leaves the field during a session
of play,
(a) the umpire shall be informed of the reason for his absence.
(b) he shall not thereafter come on to the field during a session
of play without the consent of the umpire. See 6 below. The
umpire shall give such consent as soon as is practicable.
(c) if he is absent for 15 minutes or longer, he shall not be
permitted to bowl thereafter, subject to (i), (ii) or (iii) below,
until he has been on the field for at least that length of playing
time for which he was absent.
(i) Absence or penalty for time absent shall not be carried
over into a new day’s play.
(ii) If, in the case of a follow-on or forfeiture, a side fields for
two consecutive innings, this restriction shall, subject
to (i) above, continue as necessary into the second
innings but shall not otherwise be carried over into a
new innings.
(iii) The time lost for an unscheduled break in play shall be
counted as time on the field for any fielder who comes
on to the field at the resumption of play. See Law 15.1
(An interval).
6. Player returning without permission
If a player comes on to the field of play in contravention of 5(b)
above and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play
(i) the ball shall immediately become dead and the umpire shall
award 5 penalty runs to the batting side. See Law 42.17
(Penalty runs). The ball shall not count as one of the over.
(ii) the umpire shall inform the other umpire, the captain of the
fielding side, the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the
captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
10
(iii) the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall take such
action as is considered appropriate against the captain and
player concerned.
7. Runner
The player acting as a runner for a batsman shall be a member
of the batting side and shall, if possible, have already batted in
that innings. The runner shall wear external protective equipment
equivalent to that worn by the batsman for whom he runs and
shall carry a bat.
8. Transgression of the Laws by a batsman who has a runner
(a) A batsman’s runner is subject to the Laws. He will be regarded
as a batsman except where there are specific provisions for
his role as a runner. See 7 above and Law 29.2 (Which is a
batsman’s ground).
(b) A batsman with a runner will suffer the penalty for any
infringement of the Laws by his runner as though he had been
himself responsible for the infringement. In particular he will
be out if his runner is out under any of Laws 33 (Handled the
ball), 37 (Obstructing the field) or 38 (Run out).
(c) When a batsman with a runner is striker he remains himself
subject to the Laws and will be liable to the penalties that any
infringement of them demands.
Additionally, if he is out of his ground when the wicket is
put down at the wicket-keeper’s end, he will be out in the
circumstances of Law 38 (Run out) or Law 39 (Stumped)
irrespective of the position of the non-striker or of the runner.
If he is thus dismissed, runs completed by the runner and
the other batsman before the dismissal shall not be scored.
However, the penalty for a No ball or a Wide shall stand,
together with any penalties to either side that may be awarded
when the ball is dead. See Law 42.17 (Penalty runs).
11
(d) When a batsman with a runner is not the striker
(i) he remains subject to Laws 33 (Handled the ball) and 37
(Obstructing the field) but is otherwise out of the game.
(ii) he shall stand where directed by the striker’s end umpire
so as not to interfere with play.
(iii) he will be liable, notwithstanding (i) above, to the penalty
demanded by the Laws should he commit any act of
unfair play.
9. Batsman leaving the field or retiring
A batsman may retire at any time during his innings. The umpires,
before allowing play to proceed, shall be informed of the reason
for a batsman retiring
(a) If a batsman retires because of illness, injury or any other
unavoidable cause, he is entitled to resume his innings
subject to (c) below. If for any reason he does not do so, his
innings is to be recorded as ‘Retired - not out’.
(b) If a batsman retires for any reason other than as in (a) above,
he may only resume his innings with the consent of the
opposing captain. If for any reason he does not resume his
innings it is to be recorded as ‘Retired - out'.
(c) If after retiring a batsman resumes his innings, it
shall be only at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of
another batsman.
10. Commencement of a batsman’s innings
Except at the start of a side’s innings, a batsman shall be
considered to have commenced his innings when he first steps
on to the field of play, provided Time has not been called. The
innings of the opening batsmen, and that of any new batsman at
the resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at
the call of Play.
12
LAW 3 THE UMPIRES
1. Appointment and attendance
Before the match, two umpires shall be appointed, one for each
end, to control the game as required by the Laws, with absolute
impartiality. The umpires shall be present on the ground and
report to the Executive of the ground at least 45 minutes before
the scheduled start of each day's play.
2. Change of umpire
An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in
exceptional circumstances, unless he is injured or ill. If there has
to be a change of umpire, the replacement shall act only as the
striker’s end umpire unless the captains agree that he should take
full responsibility as an umpire.
3. Agreement with captains
Before the toss the umpires shall
(a) ascertain the hours of play and agree with the captains
(i) the balls to be used during the match. See Law 5
(The ball).
(ii) times and durations of intervals for meals and times for
drinks intervals. See Law 15 (Intervals).
(iii) the boundary of the field of play and allowances for
boundaries. See Law 19 (Boundaries).
(iv) any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of
the match.
(b) inform the scorers of the agreements in (ii), (iii) and
(iv) above.
4. To inform captains and scorers
Before the toss the umpires shall agree between themselves and
inform both captains and both scorers
(i) which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used
during the match.
13
(ii) whether or not any obstacle within the field of play is to be
regarded as a boundary. See Law 19 (Boundaries).
5. The wickets, creases and boundaries
Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy
themselves that
(i) the wickets are properly pitched. See Law 8 (The wickets).
(ii) the creases are correctly marked. See Law 9 (The bowling,
popping and return creases).
(iii) the boundary of the field of play complies with the requirements
of Law 19.2 (Defining the boundary - boundary marking)
6. Conduct of the game, implements and equipment
Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy
themselves that
(a) the conduct of the game is strictly in accordance with the Laws.
(b) the implements of the game conform to the requirements of
Laws 5 (The ball) and 6 (The bat), together with either Laws
8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails) or, if appropriate,
Law 8.4 (Junior cricket).
(c) (i) no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See
Appendix D.
(ii) the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements
of Law 40.2 (Gloves).
7. Fair and unfair play
The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
8. Fitness of ground, weather and light
The umpires shall be the final judges of the fitness of the ground,
weather and light for play. See 9 below and Law 7.2 (Fitness of
the pitch for play).
9. Suspension of play for adverse conditions of ground, weather
or light
(a) (i) All references to ground include the pitch. See Law 7.1
(Area of pitch).
14
(ii) For the purpose of this Law and Law 15.9(b)(ii) (Intervals
for drinks) only, the batsmen at the wicket may deputise
for their captain at any appropriate time.
(b) If at any time the umpires together agree that the condition of
the ground, weather or light is not suitable for play, they shall
inform the captains and, unless
(i) in unsuitable ground or weather conditions both
captains agree to continue, or to commence, or to
restart play,
or (ii) in unsuitable light the batting side wishes to continue,
or to commence, or to restart play, they shall suspend
play, or not allow play to commence or to restart.
(c) (i) After agreeing to play in unsuitable ground or weather
conditions, either captain may appeal against the
conditions to the umpires before the next call of Time.
The umpires shall uphold the appeal only if, in their
opinion, the factors taken into account when making their
previous decision are the same or the conditions have
further deteriorated.
(ii) After deciding to play in unsuitable light, the captain of the
batting side may appeal against the light to the umpires
before the next call of Time. The umpires shall uphold
the appeal only if, in their opinion, the factors taken into
account when making their previous decision are the same
or the condition of the light has further deteriorated.
(d) If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions
of ground, weather or light are so bad that there is obvious
and foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire, so
that it would be unreasonable or dangerous for play to take
place, then notwithstanding the provisions of (b)(i) and (b)
(ii) above, they shall immediately suspend play, or not allow
play to commence or to restart. The decision as to whether
conditions are so bad as to warrant such action is one for the
umpires alone to make.
15
The fact that the grass and the ball are wet and slippery
does not warrant the ground conditions being regarded as
unreasonable or dangerous. If the umpires consider the ground
is so wet or slippery as to deprive the bowler of a reasonable
foothold, the fielders of the power of free movement, or the
batsmen of the ability to play their strokes or to run between
the wickets, then these conditions shall be regarded as so bad
that it would be unreasonable for play to take place.
(e) When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility
of the umpires to monitor the conditions. They shall make
inspections as often as appropriate, unaccompanied by any
of the players or officials. Immediately the umpires together
agree that conditions are suitable for play they shall call upon
the players to resume the game.
(f) If play is in progress up to the start of an agreed interval
then it will resume after the interval unless the umpires
together agree that conditions are or have become unsuitable
or dangerous. If they do so agree, then they shall implement
the procedure in (b) or (d) above, as appropriate, whether or
not there had been any decision by the captains to continue,
or any appeal against the conditions by either captain, prior
to the commencement of the interval.
10. Exceptional circumstances
The umpires shall have the discretion to implement the procedures
of 9 above for reasons other than ground, weather or light if they
consider that exceptional circumstances warrant it.

11. Position of umpires

The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which their decision may be required.
Subject to this over-riding consideration the umpire at the bowler's end shall stand where he does not interfere with either the bowler’s run up or the striker's view.

The umpire at the striker’s end may elect to stand on the off side instead of the on side of the pitch, provided he informs the captain of the fielding side, the striker and the other umpire of his intention to do so.

12. Umpires changing ends

The umpires shall change ends after each side has had one completed innings. See Law 14.2 (Forfeiture of an innings).

13. Consultation between umpires

All disputes shall be determined by the umpires. The umpires shall consult with each other whenever necessary. See also Law 27.6 (Consultation by umpires).

14. Signals

(a) The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.

(i) Signals made while the ball is in play
Dead ball - by crossing and re-crossing the wrists below the waist.
No ball - by extending one arm horizontally.
Out - by raising an index finger above the head. (If not out the umpire shall call Not out.)
Wide - by extending both arms horizontally.

(ii) When the ball is dead, the signals above, with the exception of the signal for Out, shall be repeated to the scorers. The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only when the ball is dead.
Boundary 4 - by waving an arm from side to side finishing with the arm across the chest.
Boundary 6 - by raising both arms above the head.
Bye - by raising an open hand above the head.

Commencement - by pointing to a raised wrist with the of last hour other hand.
Five penalty runs - by repeated tapping of one shoulder awarded to the with the opposite hand.
batting side
Five penalty runs - by placing one hand on the opposite runs awarded to shoulder.
fielding side
Leg bye - by touching a raised knee with the hand.
New ball - by holding the ball above the head.
Revoke last signal - by touching both shoulders, each with the opposite hand.
Short run - by bending one arm upwards and touching the nearer shoulder with the tips of the fingers.

(b) The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing play to proceed.

15. Correctness of scores

Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is essential. The umpires shall satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled. They shall agree these with the scorers at least at every interval, other than a drinks interval, and at the conclusion of the match. See Laws 4.2 (Correctness of scores), 21.8 (Correctness of result) and 21.10 (Result not to be changed).

LAW 4 THE SCORERS

1. Appointment of scorers

Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.

2. Correctness of scores

The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree. They shall agree with the umpires, at least at every interval, other than a drinks interval, and at the conclusion of the match, the runs scored, the wickets that have fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled. See Law 3.15 (Correctness of scores).

3. Acknowledging signals

The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the umpires. They shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal.

LAW 5 THE BALL

1. Weight and size

The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 5 1/2 ounces/155.9g, nor more than 5 3/4 ounces/163g, and shall measure not less than 8 13/16 in/22.4cm, nor more than 9 in/22.9cm in circumference.

2. Approval and control of balls

(a) All balls to be used in the match, having been approved by the umpires and captains, shall be in the possession of the umpires before the toss and shall remain under their control throughout the match.
(b) The umpire shall take possession of the ball in use at the fall of each wicket, at the start of any interval and at any interruption of play.

3. New ball

Unless an agreement to the contrary has been made before the match, either captain may demand a new ball at the start of each innings.

4. New ball in match of more than one day’s duration

In a match of more than one day's duration, the captain of the fielding side may demand a new ball after the prescribed number of overs has been bowled with the old one. The Governing Body for cricket in the country concerned shall decide the number of overs applicable in that country, which shall not be less than 75 overs.
The umpires shall indicate to the batsmen and the scorers whenever a new ball is taken into play.

5. Ball lost or becoming unfit for play

If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires agree that it has become unfit for play through normal use, the umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its replacement. When the ball is replaced the umpires shall inform the batsmen and the fielding captain.

6. Specifications

The specifications as described in 1 above shall apply to men’s cricket only. The following specifications will apply to
(i) Women's cricket
Weight: from 4 15/16 ounces/140g to 5 5/16 ounces /151g
Circumference: from 8 1/4 in/21.0cm to 8 7/8 in/22.5cm
(ii) Junior cricket - under 13
Weight: from 4 11/16 ounces/133g to 5 1/16 ounces/144g
Circumference: from 8 1/16 in/20.5cm to 8 11/16 in/22.0cm

LAW 6 THE BAT

1. The bat

The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.

2. Measurements

All provisions in sections 3 to 6 below are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in Appendix E.

3. The handle

(a) One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a means of joining the handle and the blade. The part of the handle that is then wholly outside the blade is defined to be the upper portion of the handle. It is a straight shaft for holding the bat. The remainder of the handle is its lower portion used purely for joining the blade and the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in interpreting 5 and 6 below, references to the blade shall be considered to extend also to the lower portion of the handle where relevant.
(b) The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood, glued where necessary and bound with twine along the upper portion.
(c) Providing 7 below is not contravened, the upper portion may be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat. Note, however, 8 below.
(d) Notwithstanding 4(c) and 5 below, both the twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions, to cover part of the shoulders as defined in Appendix E.

4. The blade

(a) The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle as defined above. The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders. See Appendix E.
(b) The blade shall consist solely of wood.
(c) No material may be placed on or inserted into either the blade or the lower portion of the handle other than as permitted in 3(d) above and 5 and 6 below, together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used solely for fixing these items, or for fixing the handle to the blade.

5. Covering the blade

All bats may have commercial identifications on the blade.
Grade A and Grade B bats may have no other covering on the blade except as permitted in 6 below. Grade C bats may have a cloth covering on the blade. This may be treated as specified in 6(d) below. Such covering is additional to the blade and is not part of the bat. Note, however, 8 below.

6. Protection and repair

Providing neither 4 above nor 7 below is contravened,
(a) solely for the purposes of
either (i) protection from surface damage to the face, sides and shoulders of the blade
or (ii) repair to the blade after damage
material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of the blade except in the case of (ii) above and then only when it is applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
(b) solid material may be inserted into the blade for repair after damage other than surface damage. Additionally, for protection from damage for Grades B and C, material may be inserted at the toe and/or along the sides, parallel to the face of the blade.
The only material permitted for any insertion is wood with minimal essential adhesives.
(c) to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, back or sides of the blade.
(d) the surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the purpose of giving a homogenous appearance by masking natural blemishes, such treatment must not materially alter the colour of the blade.

Any materials referred to in (a), (b), (c) or (d) are additional to the blade and not part of the bat. Note, however, 8 below.

7. Damage to the ball

(a) For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable damage to the ball.
(b) Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever purpose, shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable damage to the ball.
(c) For the purposes of this Law, unacceptable damage is deterioration greater than normal wear and tear caused by the ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade.

8. Contact with the ball

In these Laws,
(a) reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batsman’s hand or a glove worn on his hand, unless stated otherwise.
(b) contact between the ball and
either (i) the bat itself
or (ii) the batsman’s hand holding the bat
or (iii) any part of a glove worn on the batsman's hand holding the bat
or (iv) any additional materials permitted under 3, 5 or 6
shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat, or being struck by the bat.

LAW 7 THE PITCH

1. Area of pitch

The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12m in length and 10ft/3.05m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 5ft/1.52m from it. See Laws 8.1 (Width and pitching) and 9.2 (The bowling crease).

2. Fitness of the pitch for play

The umpires shall be the final judges of the fitness of the pitch for play. See Laws 3.8 (Fitness of ground, weather and light) and 3.9 (Suspension of play for adverse conditions of ground, weather or light).

3. Selection and preparation

Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires shall control its use and maintenance.

4. Changing the pitch

The pitch shall not be changed during the match unless the umpires decide that it is unreasonable or dangerous for play to continue on it and then only with the consent of both captains.

5. Non-turf pitches

In the event of a non-turf pitch being used, the artificial surface shall conform to the following measurements:
Length - a minimum of 58ft/17.68m
Width - a minimum of 6ft/1.83m
See Law 10.8 (Non-turf pitches).

LAW 8 THE WICKETS

1. Width and pitching

Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other at a distance of 22 yards/20.12m between the centres of the two middle stumps. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86cm wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails on top. See Appendix A.

2. Size of stumps

The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.1cm above the playing surface and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical, apart from the domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1 3/8 in/3.49cm nor more than 1 1/2 in/3.81cm. See Appendix A.

3. The bails

(a) The bails, when in position on the top of the stumps,
(i) shall not project more than 1/2 in/1.27cm above them.
(ii) shall fit between the stumps without forcing them out of the vertical.
(b) Each bail shall conform to the following specifications. See Appendix A.
Overall length:- 4 5/16 in/10.95cm
Length of barrel:- 2 1/8 in/5.40cm
Longer spigot:- 1 3/8 in/3.49cm
Shorter spigot:- 13/16 in/2.06cm

4. Junior cricket

In junior cricket, the same definitions of the wickets shall apply subject to the following measurements being used.
Width- 8 in/20.32cm
Pitched for under 13:- 21 yards/19.20m
Pitched for under 11:- 20 yards/18.29m
Pitched for under 9:- 18 yards/16.46m
Height above playing surface:- 27 in/68.58cm
Each stump Diameter- not less than 1 1/4 in/3.18cm nor more than 1 3/8 in/3.49cm

Each bail Overall:- 3 13/16 in/9.68cm
Barrel:- 1 13/16 in/4.60cm
Longer Spigot:- 1 1/4 in/3.18cm
Shorter Spigot:- 3/4 in/1.91cm

5. Dispensing with bails

The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See Law 28.4 (Dispensing with bails).

LAW 9 THE BOWLING, POPPING AND RETURN CREASES

1. The creases

A bowling crease, a popping crease and two return creases shall be marked in white, as set out in 2, 3 and 4 below, at each end of the pitch. See Appendix B.

2. The bowling crease

The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall be the line through the centres of the three stumps at that end. It shall be 8ft 8 in/2.64m in length, with the stumps in the centre.

3. The popping crease

The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4ft/1.22m from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 6ft/1.83m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.

4. The return creases

The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4ft 4 in/1.32m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping crease to a minimum of 8ft/2.44m behind it and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.

LAW 10 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA

1. Rolling

The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in (a) and (b) below.

(a) Frequency and duration of rolling

During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the captain of the batting side, for a period of not more than 7 minutes, before the start of each innings, other than the first innings of the match, and before the start of each subsequent day’s play. See (d) below.

(b) Rolling after a delayed start

In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and before the first innings of the match, the start is delayed, the captain of the batting side may request to have the pitch rolled for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together agree that the delay has had no significant effect on the state of the pitch, they shall refuse the
request for the
rolling of the pitch.
(c) Choice of rollers
If there is more than one roller available the captain of the
batting side shall have the choice.
(d) Timing of permitted rolling
The rolling permitted (maximum 7 minutes) before play
begins on any day shall be started not more than 30 minutes
before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin.
The captain of the batting side may, however, delay the start
of such rolling until not less than 10 minutes before the
time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin, should he
so desire.
(e) Insufficient time to complete rolling
If a captain declares an innings closed, or forfeits an innings,
or enforces the follow-on, and the other captain is prevented
thereby from exercising his option of the rolling permitted
(maximum 7 minutes), or if he is so prevented for any other
reason, the extra time required to complete the rolling shall
be taken out of the normal playing time.
27
2. Sweeping
(a) If rolling is to take place the pitch shall first be swept to
avoid
any possible damage by rolling in debris. This sweeping shall be
done so that the 7 minutes allowed for rolling is not affected.
(b) The pitch shall be cleared of any debris at all intervals for
meals, between innings and at the beginning of each day,
not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 10 minutes before
the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. See Law
15.1 (An interval).
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) and (b) above, the
umpires shall not allow sweeping to take place where they
consider it may be detrimental to the surface of the pitch.
3. Mowing
(a) The pitch
The pitch shall be mown on each day of the match on
which play is expected to take place, if ground and weather
conditions allow.
(b) The outfield
In order to ensure that conditions are as similar as possible
for both sides, the outfield shall be mown on each day of the
match on which play is expected to take place, if ground and
weather conditions allow.
If, for reasons other than ground and weather conditions,
complete mowing of the outfield is not possible, the Ground
Authority shall notify the captains and umpires of the
procedure to be adopted for such mowing during the match.
(c) Responsibility for mowing
All mowings which are carried out before the match shall be
the responsibility of the Ground Authority.
All subsequent mowings shall be carried out under the
supervision of the umpires.
28
(d) Timing of mowing
(i) Mowing of the pitch on any day of the match shall be
completed not later than 30 minutes before the time
scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day.
(ii) Mowing of the outfield on any day of the match shall be
completed not later than 15 minutes before the time
scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day.
4. Watering
The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
5. Re-marking creases
The creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers
it necessary.
6. Maintenance of footholes
The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers
and batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to
facilitate play. In matches of more than one day's duration, the
umpires shall allow, if necessary, the re-turfing of footholes made
by the bowler in his delivery stride, or the use of quick-setting
fillings for the same purpose.
7. Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
During play, the umpires shall allow the players to secure their
footholds by the use of sawdust provided that no damage to
the pitch is caused and that Law 42 (Fair and unfair play) is
not contravened.
8. Non-turf pitches
Wherever appropriate, the provisions set out in 1 to 7 above
shall apply.
LAW 11 COVERING THE PITCH
1. Before the match
The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the
Ground Authority and may include full covering if required.
29
However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to
the captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their
players and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down
in Laws 3 (The umpires), 7 (The pitch), 8 (The wickets), 9 (The
bowling, popping and return creases) and 10 (Preparation and
maintenance of the playing area).
2. During the match
The pitch shall not be completely covered during the match
unless provided otherwise by regulations or by agreement before
the toss.
3. Covering bowlers’ run ups
Whenever possible, the bowlers’ run ups shall be covered in
inclement weather, in order to keep them dry. Unless there
is agreement for full covering under 2 above the covers so
used shall not extend further than 5ft/1.52m in front of each
popping crease.
4. Removal of covers
(a) If after the toss the pitch is covered overnight, the covers
shall
be removed in the morning at the earliest possible moment on
each day that play is expected to take place.
(b) If covers are used during the day as protection from inclement
weather, or if inclement weather delays the removal of
overnight covers, they shall be removed promptly as soon as
conditions allow.
LAW 12 INNINGS
1. Number of innings
(a) A match shall be one or two innings of each side according to
agreement reached before the match.
(b) It may be agreed to limit any innings to a number of overs or
by a period of time. If such an agreement is made then
30
(i) in a one innings match it shall apply to both innings.
(ii) in a two innings match it shall apply to
either the first innings of each side
or the second innings of each side
or both innings of each side.
2. Alternate innings
In a two innings match each side shall take their innings alternately
except in the cases provided for in Law 13 (The follow-on) or Law
14.2 (Forfeiture of an innings).
3. Completed innings
A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if
(a) the side is all out
or (b) at the fall of a wicket, further balls remain to be bowled, but
no further batsman is available to come in
or (c) the captain declares the innings closed
or (d) the captain forfeits the innings
or (e) in the case of an agreement under 1(b) above,
either (i) the prescribed number of overs has been bowled
or (ii) the prescribed time has expired.
4. The toss
The captains shall toss for the choice of innings on the field of
play not earlier than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes,
before the scheduled or any rescheduled time for the match
to start. Note, however, the provisions of Law 1.3 (Captain).
5. Decision to be notified
The captain of the side winning the toss shall notify the
opposing captain of his decision to bat or to field, not later
than 10 minutes before the scheduled or any rescheduled
time for the match to start. Once notified the decision may
not be altered.
31
LAW 13 THE FOLLOW-ON
1. Lead on first innings
(a) In a two innings match of 5 days or more, the side which bats
first and leads by at least 200 runs shall have the option of
requiring the other side to follow their innings.
(b) The same option shall be available in two innings matches of
shorter duration with the minimum required leads as follows-
(i) 150 runs in a match of 3 or 4 days;
(ii) 100 runs in a 2-day match;
(iii) 75 runs in a 1-day match.
2. Notification
A captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of his
intention to take up this option. Law 10.1(e) (Insufficient time to
complete rolling) shall apply.
3. First day’s play lost
If no play takes place on the first day of a match of more than
one day’s duration, 1 above shall apply in accordance with the
number of days remaining from the actual start of the match The
day on which play first commences shall count as a whole day for
this purpose, irrespective of the time at which play starts.
Play will have taken place as soon as, after the call of Play, the
first over has started. See Law 22.2 (Start of an over).
LAW 14 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
1. Time of declaration
The captain of the batting side may declare an innings closed,
when the ball is dead, at any time during a match.
2. Forfeiture of an innings
A captain may forfeit either of his side's innings. A forfeited
innings shall be considered as a completed innings.
32
3. Notification
A captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires
of his decision to declare or to forfeit an innings. Law 10.1(e)
(Insufficient time to complete rolling) shall apply.
LAW 15 INTERVALS
1. An interval
The following shall be classed as intervals.
(i) The period between close of play on one day and the
start of the next day's play.
(ii) Intervals between innings.
(iii) Intervals for meals.
(iv) Intervals for drinks.
(v) Any other agreed interval.
All these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for the
purposes of Law 2.5 (Fielder absent or leaving the field).
2. Agreement of intervals
(a) Before the toss:
(i) the hours of play shall be established;
(ii) except as in (b) below, the timing and duration of
intervals for meals shall be agreed;
(iii) the timing and duration of any other interval under 1 (v)
above shall be agreed.
(b) In a one-day match no specific time need be agreed for the
tea interval. It may be agreed instead to take this interval
between the innings.
(c) Intervals for drinks may not be taken during the last hour of the
match, as defined in Law 16.6 (Last hour of match - number
of overs). Subject to this limitation the captains and umpires
shall agree the times for such intervals, if any, before the
toss and on each subsequent day not later than 10 minutes
before play is scheduled to start. See also Law 3.3 (Agreement
with captains).
33
3. Duration of intervals
(a) An interval for lunch or for tea shall be of the duration agreed
under 2(a) above, taken from the call of Time before the interval
until the call of Play on resumption after the interval.
(b) An interval between innings shall be 10 minutes from the
close of an innings to the call of Play for the start of the next
innings, except as in 4, 6 and 7 below.
4. No allowance for interval between innings
In addition to the provisions of 6 and 7 below,
(a) if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remain before
the time agreed for close of play on any day, there will be no
further play on that day. No change will be made to the time
for the start of play on the following day on account of the 10
minutes between innings.
(b) if a captain declares an innings closed during an interruption
in play of more than 10 minutes duration, no adjustment shall
be made to the time for resumption of play on account of the
10 minutes between innings, which shall be considered as
included in the interruption. Law 10.1(e) (Insufficient time to
complete rolling) shall apply.
(c) if a captain declares an innings closed during any interval
other than an interval for drinks, the interval shall be of the
agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10
minutes between innings. Law 10.1(e) (Insufficient time to
complete rolling) shall apply.
5. Changing agreed times for intervals
If for adverse conditions of ground, weather or light, or for any
34
other reason, playing time is lost, the umpires and captains
together may alter the time of the lunch interval or of the tea
interval. See also 6, 7 and 9(c) below.
6. Changing agreed time for lunch interval
(a) If an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remain before the
agreed time for lunch, the interval shall be taken immediately.
It shall be of the agreed length and shall be considered to
include the 10 minutes between innings.
(b) If, because of adverse conditions of ground, weather or
light, or in exceptional circumstances, a stoppage occurs
when 10 minutes or less remain before the agreed time for
lunch then, notwithstanding 5 above, the interval shall be
taken immediately. It shall be of the agreed length. Play
shall resume at the end of this interval or as soon after as
conditions permit.
(c) If the players have occasion to leave the field for any reason
when more than 10 minutes remain before the agreed time for
lunch then, unless the umpires and captains together agree to
alter it, lunch will be taken at the agreed time.
7. Changing agreed time for tea interval
(a) (i) If an innings ends when 30 minutes or less remain
before the agreed time for tea, then the interval shall
be taken immediately. It shall be of the agreed length
and shall be considered to include the 10 minutes
between innings.
(ii) If, when 30 minutes remain before the agreed time for
tea, an interval between innings is already in progress,
play will resume at the end of the 10 minute interval.
(b) (i) If, because of adverse conditions of ground, weather or
light, or in exceptional circumstances, a stoppage occurs
when 30 minutes or less remain before the agreed time
for tea, then unless
either there is an agreement to change the time for
tea, as permitted in 5 above
or the captains agree to forgo the tea interval, as
permitted in 10 below
the interval shall be taken immediately. The interval shall
be of the agreed length. Play shall resume at the end of
this interval or as soon after as conditions permit.
35
(ii) If a stoppage is already in progress when 30 minutes
remain before the time agreed for tea, 5 above will apply.
8. Tea interval - 9 wickets down
If either 9 wickets are already down when 2 minutes remain to
the agreed time for tea
or the 9th wicket falls within these 2 minutes or at any
later time up to and including the final ball of the over
in progress at the agreed time for tea
then notwithstanding the provisions of Law 16.5(b) (Completion of
an over) tea will not be taken until the end of the over in progress
30 minutes after the originally agreed time for tea, unless the
players have cause to leave the field of play or the innings is
completed earlier.
9. Intervals for drinks
(a) If on any day the captains agree that there shall be intervals
for drinks, the option to take such intervals shall be available
to either side Each interval shall be kept as short as possible
and in any case shall not exceed 5 minutes.
(b) (i) Unless both captains agree to forgo any drinks interval,
it shall be taken at the end of the over in progress when
the agreed time is reached. If, however, a wicket falls
within 5 minutes of the agreed time then drinks shall
be taken immediately. No other variation in the timing
of drinks intervals shall be permitted except as provided
for in (c) below.
(ii) For the purpose of (i) above and Law 3.9(a)(ii)
(Suspension of play for adverse conditions of ground,
weather or light) only, the batsmen at the wicket may
deputise for their captain.
(c) If an innings ends or the players have to leave the field of play
for any other reason within 30 minutes of the agreed time
for a drinks interval, the umpires and captains together may
rearrange the timing of drinks intervals in that session.
36
10. Agreement to forgo intervals
At any time during the match, the captains may agree to forgo the
tea interval or any of the drinks intervals. The umpires shall be
informed of the decision.
11. Scorers to be informed
The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all
agreements about hours of play and intervals, and of any changes
made thereto as permitted under this Law.
LAW 16 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
1. Call of Play
The umpire at the bowler’s end shall call Play at the start of
the match and on the resumption of play after any interval or
interruption.
2. Call of Time
The umpire at the bowler’s end shall call Time on the cessation
of play before any interval or interruption of play and at the
conclusion of the match. See Law 27 (Appeals).
3. Removal of bails
After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from
both wickets.
4. Starting a new over
Another over shall always be started at any time during the match,
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in 5
below, if the umpire, after walking at his normal pace, has arrived
at his position behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the
time agreed for the next interval, or for the close of play, has
been reached.
5. Completion of an over
Other than at the end of the match,
(a) if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the
37
over shall be completed before the interval is taken except as
provided for in (b) below.
(b) when less than 2 minutes remain before the time agreed for
the next interval, the interval will be taken immediately if
either (i) a batsman is out or retires
or (ii) the players have occasion to leave the field
whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over.
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted
it shall be completed on resumption of play.
6. Last hour of match - number of overs
When one hour of playing time of the match remains, according to
the agreed hours of play, the over in
progress shall be completed.
The next over shall be the first of a minimum of 20 overs which
must be bowled, provided that a result is not reached earlier and
provided that there is no interval or interruption in play.
The umpire at the bowler’s end shall indicate the commencement
of this 20 overs to the players and the scorers. The period of
play thereafter shall be referred to as the last hour, whatever its
actual duration.
7. Last hour of match - interruptions of play
If there is an interruption in play during the last hour of the match,
the minimum number of overs to be bowled shall be reduced from
20 as follows.
(a) The time lost for an interruption is counted from the call
of Time until the time for resumption of play as decided by
the umpires.
(b) One over shall be deducted for every complete 3 minutes of
time lost.
(c) In the case of more than one such interruption, the minutes
lost shall not be aggregated; the calculation shall be made for
each interruption separately.
38
(d) If, when one hour of playing time remains, an interruption is
already in progress,
(i) only the time lost after this moment shall be counted in
the calculation;
(ii) the over in progress at the start of the interruption shall
be completed on resumption of play and shall not count
as one of the minimum number of overs to be bowled.
(e) If, after the start of the last hour, an interruption occurs
during
an over, the over shall be completed on resumption of play.
The two part-overs shall between them count as one over of
the minimum number to be bowled.
8. Last hour of match - intervals between innings
If an innings ends so that a new innings is to be started during
the last hour of the match, the interval starts with the end of the
innings and is to end 10 minutes later.
(a) If this interval is already in progress at the start of the last
hour,
then to determine the number of overs to be bowled in the new
innings, calculations are to be made as set out in 7 above.
(b) If the innings ends after the last hour has started, two
calculations are to be made, as set out in (c) and (d) below.
The greater of the numbers yielded by these two calculations
is to be the minimum number of overs to be bowled in the
new innings.
(c) Calculation based on overs remaining.
(i) At the conclusion of the innings, the number of overs that
remain to be bowled, of the minimum in the last hour, to
be noted.
(ii) If this is not a whole number it is to be rounded up to the
next whole number.
(iii) Three overs to be deducted from the result for the interval.
39
(d) Calculation based on time remaining.
(i) At the conclusion of the innings, the time remaining
until the agreed time for close of play to be noted.
(ii) Ten minutes to be deducted from this time, for the
interval, to determine the playing time remaining.
(iii) A calculation to be made of one over for every complete
3 minutes of the playing time remaining, plus one more
over for any further part of 3 minutes remaining.
9. Conclusion of match
The match is concluded
(a) as soon as a result, as defined in sections 1, 2, 3 or 4 of Law
21 (The result), is reached.
(b) as soon as both
(i) the minimum number of overs for the last hour
are completed
and (ii) the agreed time for close of play is reached
unless a result has been reached earlier.
(c) if, without the match being concluded either as in (a) or in (b)
above, the players leave the field, either for adverse conditions
of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional circumstances,
and no further play is possible thereafter.
10. Completion of last over of match
The over in progress at the close of play on the final day shall be
completed unless
either (i) a result has been reached
or (ii) the players have occasion to leave the field. In this
case there shall be no resumption of play, except in the
circumstances of Law 21.9 (Mistakes in scoring), and
the match shall be at an end.
11. Bowler unable to complete an over during last hour of match
If, for any reason, a bowler is unable to complete an over during
the last hour, Law 22.8 (Bowler incapacitated or suspended
during an over) shall apply.
40
LAW 17 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
H. Practice on the field
(a) There shall be no bowling or batting practice on the pitch, or
on the area parallel and immediately adjacent to the pitch, at
any time on any day of the match.
(b) There shall be no bowling or batting practice on any other part
of the square on any day of the match, except before the start
of play or after the close of play on that day. Practice before
the start of play
(i) must not continue later than 30 minutes before the
scheduled time or any rescheduled time for play to start
on that day.
(ii) shall not be allowed if the umpires consider that, in the
prevailing conditions of ground and weather, it will be
detrimental to the surface of the square.
(c) There shall be no practice on the field of play between the call
of Play and the call of Time, if the umpire considers that it
could result in a waste of time. See Law 42.9 (Time wasting
by the fielding side).
(d) If a player contravenes (a) or (b) above he shall not be allowed
to bowl until
either at least one hour later than the contravention
or there has been at least 30 minutes of playing time
since the contravention
whichever is sooner. If an over is in progress at the
contravention, he shall not be allowed to complete that over.
2. Trial run up
No bowler shall have a trial run up between the call of Play and
the call of Time unless the umpire is satisfied that it will not cause
any waste of time.
41
LAW 18 SCORING RUNS
1. Runs
The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored
(a) so often as the batsmen, at any time while the ball is in play,
have crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
(b) when a boundary is scored. See Law 19 (Boundaries).
(c) when penalty runs are awarded. See 6 below.
(d) when Lost ball is called. See Law 20 (Lost ball).
2. Runs disallowed
Notwithstanding 1 above, or any other provisions elsewhere in the
Laws, the scoring of runs or awarding of penalties will be subject
to any disallowance of runs provided for within the Laws that may
be applicable.
3. Short runs
(a) A run is short if a batsman fails to make good his ground on
turning for a further run.
(b) Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter
if completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker taking
stance in front of his popping crease may run from that point
also without penalty.
4. Unintentional short runs
Except in the circumstances of 5 below,
(a) if either batsman runs a short run, unless a boundary is scored
the umpire concerned shall call and signal Short run as soon
as the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
(b) if, after either or both batsmen run short, a boundary is scored,
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and
shall not call or signal Short run.
(c) if both batsmen run short in one and the same run, this shall
be regarded as only one short run.
42
(d) if more than one run is short then, subject to (b) and (c)
above, all runs so called shall not be scored.
If there has been more than one short run the umpire shall
inform the scorers as to the number of runs scored.
5. Deliberate short runs
(a) Notwithstanding 4 above, if either umpire considers that
either or both batsmen deliberately run short at his end, the
following procedure shall be adopted.
(i) The umpire concerned shall, when the ball is dead, warn
the batsmen that the practice is unfair, indicate that this
is a first and final warning and inform the other umpire of
what has occurred. This warning shall continue to apply
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each
incoming batsman.
(ii) The batsmen shall return to their original ends.
(iii) Whether a batsman is dismissed or not, the umpire at
the bowler's end shall disallow all runs to the batting
side from that delivery other than the penalty for a No
ball or Wide, or penalties under Laws 42.5 (Deliberate
distraction or obstruction of batsman) and 42.13
(Fielders damaging the pitch), if applicable.
(iv) The umpire at the bowler’s end shall inform the scorers
as to the number of runs scored.
(b) If there is any further instance of deliberate short running by
any batsman in that innings, when the ball is dead the umpire
concerned shall inform the other umpire of what has occurred
and the procedure set out in (a)(ii) and (iii) above shall be
repeated. Additionally, the umpire at the bowler's end shall
(i) award 5 penalty runs to the fielding side. See Law 42.17
(Penalty runs).
(ii) inform the scorers as to the number of runs scored.
43
(iii) inform the batsmen, the captain of the fielding side and,
as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of
the reason for this action.
(iv) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, to the
Executive of the batting side and any Governing Body
responsible for the match, who shall take such action as
is considered appropriate against the captain and player
or players concerned.
6. Runs scored for penalties
Runs shall be scored for penalties under 5 above and Laws 2.6
(Player returning without permission), 24 (No ball), 25 (Wide
ball), 41.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.3 (Protective helmets belonging
to the fielding side) and 42 (Fair and unfair play).
7. Runs scored for boundaries
Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under Law
19 (Boundaries).
8. Runs scored for Lost ball
Runs shall be scored when Lost ball is called under Law 20
(Lost ball).
9. Batsman dismissed
When either batsman is dismissed
(a) any penalties to either side that may be applicable shall stand
but no other runs shall be scored, except as stated in 10 below.
(b) 12(a) below will apply if the method of dismissal is Caught,
Handled the ball or Obstructing the field. 12(a) will also
apply if a batsman is Run out, except in the circumstances of
Law 2.8 (Transgression of the Laws by a batsman who has a
runner) where 12(b) below will apply.
(c) the not out batsman shall return to his original end except as
stated in (b) above.
44
10. Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed
In addition to any penalties to either side that may be applicable,
if a batsman is
(a) dismissed Handled the ball, the batting side shall score the
runs completed before the offence.
(b) dismissed Obstructing the field, the batting side shall score
the runs completed before the offence.
If, however, the obstruction prevents a catch from being
made, no runs other than penalties shall be scored.
(c) dismissed Run out, the batting side shall score the runs
completed before the dismissal.
If, however, a striker with a runner is himself dismissed Run
out, no runs other than penalties shall be scored. See Law 2.8
(Transgression of the Laws by a batsman who has a runner).
11. Runs scored when ball becomes dead
(a) When the ball becomes dead on the fall of a wicket, runs shall
be scored as laid down in 9 and 10 above.
(b) When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the
fall of a wicket, or is called dead by an umpire, unless there is
specific provision otherwise in the Laws, the batting side shall
be credited with
(i) all runs completed by the batsmen before the
incident or call
and (ii) the run in progress if the batsmen have crossed at
the instant of the incident or call. Note specifically,
however, the provisions of Laws 34.4(c) (Runs
permitted from ball lawfully struck more than
once) and 42.5(b)(iv) (Deliberate distraction or
obstruction of batsman).
and (iii) any penalties that are applicable.
45
12. Batsman returning to wicket he has left
(a) If, while the ball is in play, the batsmen have crossed in running,
neither shall return to the wicket he has left, except as in
(b) below.
(b) The batsmen shall return to the wickets they originally left in
the cases of, and only in the cases of
(i) a boundary;
(ii) disallowance of runs for any reason,
(iii) the dismissal of a batsman, except as in 9(b) above.
LAW 19 BOUNDARIES
1. The boundary of the field of play
(a) Before the toss, the umpires shall agree the boundary of the
field of play with both captains. The boundary shall if possible
be marked along its whole length.
(b) The boundary shall be agreed so that no part of any sight-
screen is within the field of play.
(c) An obstacle or person within the field of play shall not be
regarded as a boundary unless so decided by the umpires before
the toss. See Law 3.4(ii) (To inform captains and scorers).
2. Defining the boundary - boundary marking
(a) Wherever practicable the boundary shall be marked by means
of a white line or a rope laid along the ground.
(b) If the boundary is marked by a white line,
(i) the inside edge of the line shall be the boundary edge.
(ii) a flag, post or board used merely to highlight the position
of a line marked on the ground must be placed outside
the boundary edge and is not itself to be regarded as
defining or marking the boundary. Note, however, the
provisions of (c) below.
(c) If a solid object is used to mark the boundary, it must have an
edge or a line to constitute the boundary edge.
46
(i) For a rope, which includes any similar object of curved
cross section lying on the ground, the boundary edge will
be the line formed by the innermost points of the rope
along its length.
(ii) For a fence, which includes any similar object in contact
with the ground, but with a flat surface projecting above
the ground, the boundary edge will be the base line of
the fence.
(d) If the boundary edge is not defined as in (b) or (c) above, the
umpires and captains must agree, before the toss, what line
will be the boundary edge. Where there is no physical marker
for a section of boundary, the boundary edge shall be the
imaginary straight line joining the two nearest marked points
of the boundary edge.
(e) If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for
any reason during play, then if possible it shall be restored to
its original position as soon as the ball is dead. If this is not
possible, then
(i) if some part of the fence or other marker has come
within the field of play, that portion is to be removed
from the field of play as soon as the ball is dead.
(ii) the line where the base of the fence or marker originally
stood shall define the boundary edge.
3. Scoring a boundary
(a) A boundary shall be scored and signalled by the umpire
at the bowler’s end whenever, while the ball is in play, in
his opinion
(i) the ball touches the boundary, or is grounded beyond
the boundary.
(ii) a fielder, with some part of his person in contact with
the ball, touches the boundary or has some part of his
person grounded beyond the boundary.
47
(b) The phrases ’touches the boundary’ and ’touching the
boundary’ shall mean contact with
either (i) the boundary edge as defined in 2 above
or (ii) any person or obstacle within the field of play which
has been designated a boundary by the umpires
before the toss.
(c) The phrase ‘grounded beyond the boundary' shall mean
contact with
either (i) any part of a line or a solid object marking the
boundary, except its boundary edge
or (ii) the ground outside the boundary edge
or (iii) any object in contact with the ground outside the
boundary edge.
4. Runs allowed for boundaries
(a) Before the toss, the umpires shall agree with both captains the
runs to be allowed for boundaries. In deciding the allowances,
the umpires and captains shall be guided by the prevailing
custom of the ground.
(b) Unless agreed differently under (a) above, the allowances for
boundaries shall be 6 runs if the ball having been struck by
the bat pitches beyond the boundary, but otherwise 4 runs.
These allowances shall still apply even though the ball has
previously touched a fielder. See also (c) below.
(c) The ball shall be regarded as pitching beyond the boundary
and 6 runs shall be scored if a fielder
(i) has any part of his person touching the boundary or
grounded beyond the boundary when he catches the ball.
(ii) catches the ball and subsequently touches the boundary
or grounds some part of his person beyond the boundary
while carrying the ball but before completing the catch.
See Law 32 (Caught).
48
5. Runs scored
When a boundary is scored,
(a) the penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable, shall stand,
together with any penalties under either of Laws 18.5(b)
(Deliberate short runs) or 42 (Fair and unfair play) that apply
before the boundary is scored.
(b) the batting side, except in the circumstances of 6 below, shall
additionally be awarded whichever is the greater of
(i) the allowance for the boundary.
(ii) the runs completed by the batsmen, together with the run
in progress if they have crossed at the instant the boundary
is scored.
(c) When the runs in (b)(ii) above exceed the boundary allowance,
they shall replace the boundary for the purposes of Law 18.12
(Batsman returning to wicket he has left).
6. Overthrow or wilful act of fielder
If the boundary results either from an overthrow or from the wilful
act of a fielder the runs scored shall be
(i) the penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable,
together with any penalties under either of Laws 18.5(b)
(Deliberate short runs) or 42 (Fair and unfair play) that
are applicable before the boundary is scored
and (ii) the allowance for the boundary
and (iii) the runs completed by the batsmen, together with the
run in progress if they have crossed at the instant of the
throw or act.
Law 18.12(a) (Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall
apply as from the instant of the throw or act.
LAW 20 LOST BALL
1. Fielder to call Lost ball
If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any fielder may call
49
Lost ball. The ball shall then become dead. See Law 23.1 (Ball
is dead). Law 18.12(a) (Batsman returning to wicket he has left)
shall apply as from the instant of the call.
2. Ball to be replaced
The umpires shall replace the ball with one which has had wear
comparable with that which the previous ball had received before
was lost or became irrecoverable. See Law 5.5 (Ball lost or
becoming unfit for play).
3. Runs scored
(a) The penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable, shall stand,
together with any penalties under either of Laws 18.5(b)
(Deliberate short runs) or 42 (Fair and unfair play) that are
applicable before the call of Lost ball.
(b) The batting side shall additionally be awarded
either (i) the runs completed by the batsmen, together with
the run in progress if they have crossed at the
instant of the call,
or (ii) 6 runs,
whichever is the greater.
4. How scored
If there is a one run penalty for a No ball or for a Wide, it shall be
scored as a No ball extra or as a Wide as appropriate. See Laws
24.13 (Runs resulting from a No ball - how scored) and 25.6
(Runs resulting from a Wide - how scored). If any other penalties
have been awarded to either side, they shall be scored as penalty
extras. See Law 42.17 (Penalty runs).
Runs to the batting side in 3(b) above shall be credited to the
striker if the ball has been struck by the bat, but otherwise to the
total of Byes, Leg byes, No balls or Wides as the case may be.
50
LAW 21 THE RESULT
1. A Win - two innings match
The side which has scored a total of runs in excess of that scored
in the two completed innings of the opposing side shall win the
match. Note also 6 below.
A forfeited innings is to count as a completed innings. See Law
14 (Declaration and forfeiture).
2. A Win - one innings match
The side which has scored in its one innings a total of runs in
excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed
innings shall win the match. Note also 6 below.
3. Umpires awarding a match
(a) A match shall be lost by a side which
either (i) concedes defeat
or (ii) in the opinion of the umpires refuses to play
and the umpires shall award the match to the other side.
(b) If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players
might constitute a refusal by either side to play then the
umpires together shall ascertain the cause of the action. If
they then decide together that this action does constitute a
refusal to play by one side, they shall so inform the captain
of that side. If the captain persists in the action the umpires
shall award the match in accordance with (a)(ii) above.
(c) If action as in (b) above takes place after play has started and
does not constitute a refusal to play
(i) playing time lost shall be counted from the start of the
action until play recommences, subject to Law 15.5
(Changing agreed times for intervals).
(ii) the time for close of play on that day shall be extended
by this length of time, subject to Law 3.9 (Suspension of
play for adverse conditions of ground, weather or light).
(iii) if applicable, no overs shall be deducted during the last
hour of the match solely on account of this time.
51
4. A Tie
The result of a match shall be a Tie when the scores are equal
at the conclusion of play, but only if the side batting last has
completed its innings.
5. A Draw
A match which is concluded, as defined in Law 16.9 (Conclusion
of match), without being determined in any of the ways stated in
1, 2, 3 or 4 above, shall count as a Draw.
6. Winning hit or extras
(a) As soon as a result is reached, as defined in 1, 2, 3 or 4 above,
the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter,
except as in Law 42.17(b) (Penalty runs), shall be regarded
as part of it. Note also 9 below.
(b) The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win
only if its total of runs is sufficient without including any
runs completed before the dismissal of the striker by the
completion of a catch or by the obstruction of a catch.
(c) If a boundary is scored before the batsmen have completed
sufficient runs to win the match, then the whole of the
boundary allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and,
in the case of a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.
7. Statement of result
If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its
wickets, the result shall be stated as a win by the number of
wickets still then to fall.
If the side batting last has lost all its wickets but, as the result of
an award of 5 penalty runs at the end of the match, has scored a
total of runs in excess of the total scored by the opposing side, the
result shall be stated as a win to that side by Penalty runs.
If the side fielding last wins the match, the result shall be stated
as a win by runs.
52
If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing
to play, the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match
Awarded as the case may be.
8. Correctness of result
Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the
responsibility of the umpires. See Law 3.15 (Correctness
of scores).
9. Mistakes in scoring
If, after the umpires and players have left the field in the belief
that the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a
mistake in scoring has occurred which affects the result, then,
subject to 10 below, they shall adopt the following procedure.
(a) If, when the players leave the field, the side batting last has
not completed its innings, and
either (i) the number of overs to be bowled in the last hour
has not been completed,
or (ii) the agreed finishing time has not been reached,
then unless one side concedes defeat the umpires shall order
play to resume.
If conditions permit, play will then continue until the
prescribed number of overs has been completed and the time
remaining has elapsed, unless a result is reached earlier. The
number of overs and/or the time remaining shall be taken as
they were when the players left the field; no account shall be
taken of the time between that moment and the resumption
of play.
(b) If, when the players leave the field, the overs have been
completed and time has been reached, or if the side batting
last has completed its innings, the umpires shall immediately
inform both captains of the necessary corrections to the scores
and to the result.
53
10. Result not to be changed
Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness
of the scores at the conclusion of the match - see Laws 3.15
(Correctness of scores) and 4.2 (Correctness of scores) - the
result cannot thereafter be changed.
LAW 22 THE OVER
1. Number of balls
The ball shall be bowled from each wicket alternately in overs of
6 balls.
2. Start of an over
An over has started when the bowler starts his run up or, if he has
no run up, his delivery action for the first delivery of that over.
3. Call of Over
When 6 balls have been bowled other than those which are
not to count in the over and as the ball becomes dead - see
Law 23 (Dead ball) - the umpire shall call Over before leaving
the wicket.
4. Balls not to count in the over
(a) A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless
it is delivered, even though a batsman may be dismissed or
some other incident occurs before the ball is delivered.
(b) A ball which is delivered by the bowler shall not count as one
of the 6 balls of the over
(i) if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See Law 23
(Dead ball).
(ii) if it is a No ball. See Law 24 (No ball).
(iii) if it is a Wide. See Law 25 (Wide ball).
(iv) if it is called dead in the circumstances of Law 23.3(b)
(vi) (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
54
(v) when 5 penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under
any of Laws 2.6 (Player returning without permission), 41.2
(Fielding the ball), 42.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract
striker) or 42.5 (Deliberate distraction or obstruction
of batsman).
5. Umpire miscounting
If an umpire miscounts the number of balls, the over as counted
by the umpire shall stand.
6. Bowler changing ends
A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired,
provided that he does not bowl two overs, or parts thereof,
consecutively in the same innings.
7. Finishing an over
(a) Other than at the end of an innings, a bowler shall finish an
over in progress unless he is incapacitated, or he is suspended
under any of the Laws.
(b) If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is
left uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption of
play, it shall be completed on resumption of play.
8. Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to
bowl the first ball of an over, or is incapacitated or suspended
during an over, the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another
bowler shall complete the over from the same end, provided that
he does not bowl two overs, or parts thereof, consecutively in
one innings.
LAW 23 DEAD BALL
1. Ball is dead
(a) The ball becomes dead when
(i) it is finally settled in the hands of the wicket-keeper or
the bowler.
55
(ii) a boundary is scored. See Law 19.3 (Scoring
a boundary).
(iii) a batsman is dismissed.
(iv) whether played or not it becomes trapped between the
bat and person of a batsman or between items of his
clothing or equipment.
(v) whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or
equipment of a batsman or the clothing of an umpire.
(vi) it lodges in a protective helmet worn by a member of the
fielding side.
(vii) there is a contravention of either of Laws 41.2 (Fielding
the ball) or 41.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the
fielding side).
(viii) there is an award of penalty runs under Law 2.6 (Player
returning without permission).
(ix) Lost ball is called. See Law 20 (Lost ball).
(x) the umpire calls Over or Time.
(b) The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to
the umpire at the bowler's end that the fielding side and both
batsmen at the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
2. Ball finally settled
Whether the ball is finally settled or not is a matter for the umpire
alone to decide.
3. Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
(a) When the ball has become dead under 1 above, the bowler’s
end umpire may call Dead ball, if it is necessary to inform
the players.
(b) Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
(i) he intervenes in a case of unfair play.
(ii) a serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
(iii) he leaves his normal position for consultation.
(iv) one or both bails fall from the striker's wicket before he
has the opportunity of playing the ball.
56
(v) he is satisfied that for an adequate reason the striker is
not ready for the delivery of the ball and, if the ball is
delivered, makes no attempt to play it.
(vi) the striker is distracted by any noise or movement or
in any other way while he is preparing to receive or
receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the source
of the distraction is within the game or outside it. Note,
however, the provisions of Law 42.4 (Deliberate attempt
to distract the striker).
The ball shall not count as one of the over.
(vii) the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
(viii) the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for any reason
other than an attempt to run out the non-striker before
entering his delivery stride. See Law 42.15 (Bowler
attempting to run out non-striker before delivery).
(ix) he is required to do so under any of the Laws.
4. Ball ceases to be dead
The ball ceases to be dead - that is, it comes into play - when the
bowler starts his run up or, if he has no run up, his bowling action.
5. Action on call of Dead ball
(a) A ball is not to count as one of the over if it becomes dead
or is to be considered dead before the striker has had an
opportunity to play it.
(b) If the ball becomes dead or is to be considered dead after
the striker has had an opportunity to play the ball, except in
the circumstances of 3(vi) above and Law 42.4 (Deliberate
attempt to distract striker), no additional delivery shall be
allowed unless No ball or Wide has been called.
LAW 24 NO BALL
1. Mode of delivery
(a) The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and
57
shall so inform the striker.
It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change
in his mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and
signal No ball.
(b) Underarm bowling shall not be permitted except by special
agreement before the match.
2. Fair delivery - the arm
For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be
thrown. See 3 below.
Although it is the primary responsibility of the striker’s end umpire
to ensure the fairness of a delivery in this respect, there is nothing
in this Law to debar the bowler’s end umpire from calling and
signalling No ball if he considers that the ball has been thrown.
(a) If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown,
he shall
(i) call and signal No ball.
(ii) caution the bowler, when the ball is dead. This caution
shall apply throughout the innings.
(iii) inform the other umpire, the batsmen at the wicket, the
captain of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable,
the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
(b) If either umpire considers that after such caution a further
delivery by the same bowler in that innings is thrown, the
umpire concerned shall repeat the procedure set out in (a)
above, indicating to the bowler that this is a final warning.
This warning shall also apply throughout the innings.
(c) If either umpire considers that a further delivery by the same
bowler in that innings is thrown,
(i) the umpire concerned shall call and signal No ball.
When the ball is dead he shall inform the other umpire,
the batsmen at the wicket and, as soon as practicable,
the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
(ii) the umpire at the bowler’s end shall direct the captain
of the fielding side to take the bowler off forthwith. The
over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall
neither have bowled the previous over nor be allowed to
bowl the next over.
The bowler thus taken off shall not bowl again in
that innings.
(iii) the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and bowler concerned.
3. Definition of fair delivery - the arm
A ball is fairly delivered in respect of the arm if, once the bowler’s
arm has reached the level of the shoulder in the delivery swing,
the elbow joint is not straightened partially or completely from
that point until the ball has left the hand. This definition shall
not debar a bowler from flexing or rotating the wrist in the
delivery swing.
4. Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before enter
ing his delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal
No ball. See Law 42.16 (Batsmen stealing a run). However, the
procedure stated in 2 above of caution, informing, final warning,
action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.

5. Fair delivery - the feet
For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery
stride
(i) the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the
return crease.
(ii) the bowler's front foot must land with some part of the foot,
whether grounded or raised, behind the popping crease.

59
If the umpire at the bowler's end is not satisfied that both these
conditions have been met, he shall call and signal No ball.

6. Ball bouncing more than twice or rolling along the ground

The umpire at the bowler's end shall call and signal No ball if a
ball which he considers to have been delivered, without having
previously touched the bat or person of the striker,
either (i) bounces more than twice
or (ii) rolls along the ground
before it reaches the popping crease.

7. Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the
line of the striker's wicket, without having touched the bat or
person of the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and
immediately call and signal Dead ball.

8. Call of No ball for infringement of other Laws
In addition to the instances above, an umpire shall call and signal
No ball as required by the following Laws.
Law 40.3 - Position of wicket-keeper
Law 41.5 - Limitation of on side fielders
Law 41.6 - Fielders not to encroach on the pitch
Law 42.6 - Dangerous and unfair bowling
Law 42.7 - Dangerous and unfair bowling - action by the umpire
Law 42.8 - Deliberate bowling of high full pitched balls.

9. Revoking a call of No ball
An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if the ball does not leave
the bowler’s hand for any reason.

10. No ball to over-ride Wide
A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See
Law 25.1 (Judging a Wide) and 25.3 (Call and signal of Wide ball).

60
11. Ball not dead
The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.

12. Penalty for a No ball
A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No
ball. Unless the call is revoked, this penalty shall stand even if
a batsman is dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs
scored, any boundary allowance and any other penalties awarded.

13. Runs resulting from a No ball - how scored
The one run penalty for a No ball shall be scored as a No ball extra.
If other penalty runs have been awarded to either side, these shall
be scored as in Law 42.17 (Penalty runs). Any runs completed
by the batsmen or a boundary allowance shall be credited to the
striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise they also
shall be scored as No ball extras.
Apart from any award of a 5 run penalty, all runs resulting from a
No ball, whether as No ball extras or credited to the striker, shall
be debited against the bowler.

14. No ball not to count
A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See Law 22.4 (Balls
not to count in the over).

15. Out from a No ball
When No ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under
any of the Laws except 33 (Handled the ball), 34 (Hit the ball
twice), 37 (Obstructing the field) or 38 (Run out).

LAW 25 WIDE BALL

1. Judging a Wide
(a) If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall
adjudge it a Wide if, according to the definition in (b) below,
in his opinion the ball passes wide of the striker where he is
standing and would also have passed wide of him standing in
a normal guard position.

61
(b) The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker
unless it is sufficiently within his reach for him to be able to
hit it with his bat by means of a normal cricket stroke.

2. Delivery not a Wide
The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide
(a) if the striker, by moving,
either (i) causes the ball to pass wide of him, as defined in
1(b) above
or (ii) brings the ball sufficiently within his reach to be
able to hit it with his bat by means of a normal
cricket stroke.
(b) if the ball touches the striker’s bat or person.

3. Call and signal of Wide ball
(a) If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he shall call
and signal Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s
wicket. It shall, however, be considered to have been a Wide
from the instant of delivery, even though it cannot be called
Wide until it passes the striker’s wicket.
(b) The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then
any contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person.
(c) The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is
called a No ball. See Law 24.10 (No ball to over-ride Wide).

4. Ball not dead
The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.

5. Penalty for a Wide
A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide
ball. Unless the call is revoked (see 3 above), this penalty shall
stand even if a batsman is dismissed, and shall be in addition
to any other runs scored, any boundary allowance and any other
penalties awarded.

62
6. Runs resulting from a Wide - how scored
All runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary allowance,
together with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide
balls. Apart from any award of a 5 run penalty, all runs resulting
from a Wide shall be debited against the bowler.

7. Wide not to count
A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See Law 22.4 (Balls not
to count in the over).

8. Out from a Wide
When Wide ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under
any of the Laws except 33 (Handled the ball), 35 (Hit wicket), 37
(Obstructing the field), 38 (Run out) or 39 (Stumped).

LAW 26 BYE AND LEG BYE

1. Byes
If the ball, not being a No ball or a Wide, passes the striker
without touching his bat or person, any runs completed by the
batsmen or a boundary allowance shall be credited as Byes to the
batting side.

2. Leg byes
(a) If a ball delivered by the bowler first strikes the person of the
striker, runs shall be scored only if the umpire is satisfied that
the striker has
either (i) attempted to play the ball with his bat,
or (ii) tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
If the umpire is satisfied that either of these conditions has
been met, and the ball makes no subsequent contact with the
bat, runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary allowance
shall be credited to the batting side as in (b). Note, however,
the provisions of Laws 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than
once) and 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more
than once).

63
(b) The runs in (a) above shall,
(i) if the delivery is not a No ball, be scored as Leg byes.
(ii) if No ball has been called, be scored together with the
penalty for the No ball as No ball extras.

3. Leg byes not to be awarded
If in the circumstances of 2(a) above the umpire considers that
neither of the conditions (i) and (ii) therein has been met, then Leg
byes will not be awarded. The batting side shall not be credited
with any runs from that delivery apart from the one run penalty
for a No ball if applicable. Moreover, no other penalties shall be
awarded to the batting side when the ball is dead. See Law 42.17
(Penalty runs). The following procedure shall be adopted.
(a) If no run is attempted but the ball reaches the boundary,
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball, and disallow
the boundary.
(b) If runs are attempted and if
(i) neither batsman is dismissed and the ball does not
become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall call
and signal Dead ball as soon as one run is completed
or the ball reaches the boundary. The batsmen shall
return to their original ends. The run or boundary shall
be disallowed.
(ii) before one run is completed or the ball reaches the
boundary, a batsman is dismissed, or the ball becomes
dead for any other reason, all the provisions of the Laws
will apply, except that no runs and no penalties shall be
credited to the batting side, other than the penalty for a
No ball if applicable.

LAW 27 APPEALS
1. Umpire not to give batsman out without an appeal
Neither umpire shall give a batsman out, even though he may be
out under the Laws, unless appealed to by the fielding side. This
64
shall not debar a batsman who is out under any of the Laws from
leaving his wicket without an appeal having been made. Note,
however, the provisions of 7 below.

2. Batsman dismissed
A batsman is dismissed if
either (a) he is given out by an umpire, on appeal
or (b) he is out under any of the Laws and leaves his wicket
as in 1 above.

3. Timing of appeals
For an appeal to be valid it must be made before the bowler begins
his run up or, if he has no run up, his bowling action to deliver the
next ball, and before Time has been called.
The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the
start of the following over provided Time has not been called. See
Laws 16.2 (Call of Time) and 22.2 (Start of an over).

4. Appeal “How’s That?”
An appeal “How’s That?" covers all ways of being out.

5. Answering appeals
The umpire at the bowler’s end shall answer all appeals except
those arising out of any of Laws 35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or
38 (Run out) when this occurs at the striker’s wicket. A decision
Not out by one umpire shall not prevent the other umpire from
giving a decision, provided that each is considering only matters
within his jurisdiction.
When a batsman has been given Not out, either umpire may,
within his jurisdiction, answer a further appeal provided that it is
made in accordance with 3 above.

6. Consultation by umpires
Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his own
jurisdiction. If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the
other umpire may have been in a better position to see, he shall
65
consult the latter on this point of fact and shall then give his
decision. If, after consultation, there is still doubt remaining the
decision shall be Not out.

7. Batsman leaving his wicket under a misapprehension
An umpire shall intervene if satisfied that a batsman, not having
been given out, has left his wicket under a misapprehension that
he is out. The umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball
to prevent any further action by the fielding side and shall recall
the batsman.

8. Withdrawal of an appeal
The captain of the fielding side may withdraw an appeal only with
the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the appeal
falls and before the outgoing batsman has left the field of play. If
such consent is given the umpire concerned shall, if applicable,
revoke his decision and recall the batsman.

9. Umpire’s decision
An umpire may alter his decision provided that such alteration
is made promptly. This apart, an umpire’s decision, once made,
is final.

LAW 28 THE WICKET IS DOWN

1. Wicket put down
(a) The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground by
(i) the ball.
(ii) the striker’s bat, whether he is holding it or has let go of it.
(iii) the striker’s person or by any part of his clothing or
equipment becoming detached from his person.
(iv) a fielder, with his hand or arm, providing that the ball is
held in the hand or hands so used, or in the hand of the
arm so used.
66
The wicket is also put down if a fielder pulls a stump out
of the ground in the same manner.
(b) The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps,
but if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this
shall be regarded as complete removal.

2. One bail off
If one bail is off, it shall be sufficient for the purpose of putting
the wicket down to remove the remaining bail, or to strike or pull
any of the three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways
stated in 1 above.

3. Remaking the wicket
If the wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, the
umpire shall not remake the wicket until the ball is dead. See Law
23 (Dead ball). Any fielder, however, may
(i) replace a bail or bails on top of the stumps.
(ii) put back one or more stumps into the ground where the
wicket originally stood.

4. Dispensing with bails
If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails, in accordance
with Law 8.5 (Dispensing with bails), the decision as to whether
the wicket has been put down is one for the umpire concerned
to decide.
(a) After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been
put down if the umpire concerned is satisfied that the wicket
has been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person, or
items of his clothing or equipment separated from his person
as described in 1 (a)(ii) or 1 (a)(iii) above, or by a fielder with
the hand holding the ball or with the arm of the hand holding
the ball.
(b) If the wicket has already been broken or put down, (a) above
shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. Any
67
fielder may replace a stump or stumps, in accordance with
3 above, in order to have an opportunity of putting the
wicket down.

LAW 29 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND

1. When out of his ground
A batsman shall be considered to be out of his ground unless his
bat or some part of his person is grounded behind the popping
crease at that end.

2. Which is a batsman’s ground
(a) If only one batsman is within a ground
(i) it is his ground.
(ii) it remains his ground even if he is later joined there by
the other batsman.
(b) If both batsmen are in the same ground and one of them
subsequently leaves it, (a)(i) above applies.
(c) If there is no batsman in either ground, then each ground
belongs to whichever of the batsmen is nearer to it, or, if the
batsmen are level, to whichever was nearer to it immediately
prior to their drawing level.
(d) If a ground belongs to one batsman then, unless there is a
striker with a runner, the other ground belongs to the other
batsman irrespective of his position.
(e) When a batsman with a runner is striker, his ground is always
that at the wicket-keeper's end. However, (a), (b), (c) and (d)
above will still apply, but only to the runner and the non-
striker, so that that ground will also belong to either the non
striker or the runner, as the case may be.

3. Position of non-striker
The non-striker, when standing at the bowler's end, should be
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which
the ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is
granted by the umpire.
68
LAW 30 BOWLED

1. Out Bowled
(a) The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down by a ball
delivered by the bowler, not being a No ball, even if it first
touches his bat or person.
(b) Notwithstanding (a) above he shall not be out Bowled if before
striking the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other
player or with an umpire. He will, however, be subject to Laws
33 (Handled the ball), 37 (Obstructing the field), 38 (Run
out) and 39 (Stumped).

2. Bowled to take precedence
The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down as in 1 above,
even though a decision against him for any other method of
dismissal would be justified.

LAW 31 TIMED OUT

1. Out Timed out
(a) Unless Time has been called, the incoming batsman must
be in position to take guard or for his partner to be ready
to receive the next ball within 3 minutes of the fall of the
previous wicket. If this requirement is not met, the incoming
batsman will be out, Timed out.
(b) In the event of protracted delay in which no batsman comes
to the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of Law
21.3 (Umpires awarding a match). For the purposes of that
Law the
start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of the
3 minutes referred to above.
2. Bowler does not get credit
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
69
LAW 32 CAUGHT
1. Out Caught
The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not
being a No ball, touches his bat without having previously been in
contact with any member of the fielding side and is subsequently
held by a fielder as a fair catch before it touches the ground.
2. Caught to take precedence
If the criteria of 1 above are met and the striker is not out Bowled,
then he is out Caught, even though a decision against either
batsman for another method of dismissal would be justified. Runs
completed by the batsmen before the completion of the catch will
not be scored. Note also Laws 21.6 (Winning hit or extras) and
42.17(b) (Penalty runs).
3. A fair catch
A catch shall be considered to have been fairly made if
(a) throughout the act of making the catch
(i) any fielder in contact with the ball is within the field of
play. See 4 below.
(ii) the ball is at no time in contact with any object grounded
beyond the boundary.
The act of making the catch shall start from the time when
a fielder first handles the ball and shall end when a fielder
obtains complete control both over the ball and over his
own movement.
(b) the ball is hugged to the body of the catcher or accidentally
lodges in his clothing or, in the case of the wicket-keeper, in
his pads. However, it is not a fair catch if the ball lodges in a
protective helmet worn by a fielder. See Law 23 (Dead ball).
(c) the ball does not touch the ground, even though the hand
holding it does so in effecting the catch.
(d) a fielder catches the ball after it has been lawfully struck more
than once by the striker, but only if the ball has not touched
the ground since first being struck.
70
(e) a fielder catches the ball after it has touched an umpire,
another fielder or the other batsman. However, it is not a fair
catch if the ball has touched a protective helmet worn by a
fielder, although the ball remains in play.
(f) a fielder catches the ball in the air after it has crossed the
boundary provided that
(i) he has no part of his person touching, or grounded beyond,
the boundary at any time when he is in contact with
the ball.

(ii) the ball has not been grounded beyond the boundary.
See Law 19.3 (Scoring a boundary).
(g) the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary,
provided it has not previously been decided to regard the
obstruction as a boundary.
4. Fielder within the field of play
(a) A fielder is not within the field of play if he touches the
boundary or has any part of his person grounded beyond the
boundary. See Law 19.3 (Scoring a boundary).
(b) 6 runs shall be scored if a fielder
(i) has any part of his person touching, or grounded beyond,
the boundary when he catches the ball.
(ii) catches the ball and subsequently touches the boundary
or grounds some part of his person over the boundary
while carrying the ball but before completing the catch.
See Laws 19.3 (Scoring a boundary) and 19.4 (Runs allowed
for boundaries).
5. No runs to be scored
If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed
by the batsmen before the completion of the catch shall not be
scored, but any penalties awarded to either side when the ball is
dead, if applicable, will stand. Law 18.12(a) (Batsman returning to
wicket he has left) shall apply from the instant of the catch.
71
LAW 33 HANDLED THE BALL
1. Out Handled the ball
Either batsman is out Handled the ball if he wilfully touches the
ball while in play with a hand or hands not holding the bat unless
he does so with the consent of the opposing side.
2. Not out Handled the ball
Notwithstanding 1 above, a batsman will not be out under this
Law if
(i) he handles the ball in order to avoid injury.
(ii) he uses his hand or hands to return the ball to any member
of the fielding side without the consent of that side. Note,
however, the provisions of Law 37.4 (Returning the ball to a
member of the fielding side).
3. Runs scored
If either batsman is dismissed under this Law, any runs completed
before the offence, together with any penalty extras and the
penalty for a No ball or Wide, if applicable, shall be scored. See
Laws 18.10 (Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed) and
42.17 (Penalty runs).
4. Bowler does not get credit
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
LAW 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
1. Out Hit the ball twice
(a) The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in
play, it strikes any part of his person or is struck by his bat
and, before the ball has been touched by a fielder, he wilfully
strikes it again with his bat or person, other than a hand not
holding the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding his
wicket. See 3 below and Laws 33 (Handled the ball) and 37
(Obstructing the field).
(b) For the purpose of this Law, ‘struck’ or ‘strike’ shall include
contact with the person of the striker.
72
2. Not out Hit the ball twice
Notwithstanding 1(a) above, the striker will not be out under this
Law if
(i) he makes a second or subsequent stroke in order to return
the ball to any member of the fielding side. Note, however,
the provisions of Law 37.4 (Returning the ball to a member
of the fielding side).
(ii) he wilfully strikes the ball after it has touched a fielder.
Note, however, the provisions of Law 37.1 (Out Obstructing
the field).
3. Ball lawfully struck more than once
Solely in order to guard his wicket and before the ball has been
touched by a fielder, the striker may lawfully strike the ball more
than once with his bat or with any part of his person other than a
hand not holding the bat.
Notwithstanding this provision, the striker may not prevent the ball
from being caught by making more than one stroke in defence of
his wicket. See Law 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught).
4. Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in
3 above, only the first strike is to be considered in determining
whether runs are to be allowed and how they are to be scored.
(a) If on the first strike the umpire is satisfied that
either (i) the ball first struck the bat
or (ii) the striker attempted to play the ball with his bat
or (iii) the striker tried to avoid being hit by the ball
then any penalties to the batting side that are applicable shall
be allowed.
(b) If the conditions in (a) above are met then, if they result
from overthrows, and only if they result from overthrows, runs
completed by the batsmen or a boundary will be allowed in
addition to any penalties that are applicable. They shall be
credited to the striker if the first strike was with the bat. If the
73
first strike was on the person of the striker they shall be scored
as Leg byes or No ball extras, as appropriate. See Law 26.2
(Leg byes).
(c) If the conditions of (a) above are met and there is no overthrow
until after the batsmen have started to run, but before one run
is completed,
(i) only subsequent completed runs or a boundary shall be
allowed. The first run shall count as a completed run for
this purpose only if the batsmen have not crossed at the
instant of the throw.
(ii) if in these circumstances the ball goes to the boundary
from the throw then, notwithstanding the provisions of
Law 19.6 (Overthrow or wilful act of fielder), only the
boundary allowance shall be scored.
(iii) if the ball goes to the boundary as the result of a further
overthrow, then runs completed by the batsmen after
the first throw and before this final throw shall be added
to the boundary allowance. The run in progress at the
first throw will count only if they have not crossed at
that moment; the run in progress at the final throw shall
count only if they have crossed at that moment. La a
18.12 (Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall
apply as from the moment of the final throw.
(d) If, in the opinion of the umpire, none of the conditions in (a)
above have been met then, whether there is an overthrow or
not, the batting side shall not be credited with any runs from
that delivery apart from the penalty for a No ball if applicable.
Moreover, no other penalties shall be awarded to the batting
side when the ball is dead. See Law 42.17 (Penalty runs).
5. Ball lawfully struck more than once - action by the umpire
If no runs are to be allowed, either in the circumstances of 4(d)
above, or because there has been no overthrow and
74
(a) if no run is attempted but the ball reaches the boundary,
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball and disallow
the boundary.
(b) if the batsmen run and
(i) neither batsman is dismissed and the ball does not
become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall call
and signal Dead ball as soon as one run is completed
or the ball reaches the boundary. The batsmen shall
return to their original ends. The run or boundary shall
be disallowed.
(ii) a batsman is dismissed, or if for any other reason the
ball becomes dead before one run is completed or the
ball reaches the boundary, all the provisions of the Laws
will apply except that the award of penalties to the
batting side shall be as laid down in 4(a) or 4(d) above
as appropriate.
6. Bowler does not get credit
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
LAW 35 HIT WICKET
1. Out Hit wicket
(a) The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered
his delivery stride and while the ball is in play, his wicket
is put down either by the striker's bat or by his person as
described in Law 28.l(a)(ii) and (iii) (Wicket put down)
either (i) in the course of any action taken by him in preparing
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
or (ii) in setting off for his first run immediately after
playing, or playing at, the ball,
or (iii) if he makes no attempt to play the ball, in setting
75
the umpire this is immediately after he has had the
opportunity of playing the ball,
or (iv) in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the
purpose of guarding his wicket within the provisions
of Law 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
(b) If the striker puts his wicket down in any of the ways
described in Law 28.l(a)(ii) and (iii) (Wicket put down)
before the bowler has entered his delivery stride, either
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
2. Not out Hit wicket
Notwithstanding 1 above, the batsman is not out under this Law
should his wicket be put down in any of the ways referred to in
1 above if
(a) it occurs after he has completed any action in receiving
the delivery, other than in 1 (a)(ii), (iii) or (iv) above.
(b) it occurs when he is in the act of running, other than in
setting off immediately for his first run.
(c) it occurs when he is trying to avoid being run out or stumped.
(d) it occurs while he is trying to avoid a throw-in at any time.
(e) the bowler, after entering his delivery stride, does not deliver
the ball. In this case either umpire shall immediately call
and signal Dead ball. See Law 23.3 (Umpire calling and
signalling Dead ball).
(f) the delivery is a No ball.
LAW 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
1. Out LBW
The striker is out LBW in the circumstances set out below.
(a)The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
and (b)the ball, if it is not intercepted full pitch, pitches in
line between wicket and wicket or on the off side of the
striker’s wicket
and (c) the ball not having previously touched his bat, the striker
76
intercepts the ball, either full pitch or after pitching,
with any part of his person
and (d)the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails
either (i) is between wicket and wicket
or (ii) is either between wicket and wicket or outside
the line of the off stump, if the striker has
made no genuine attempt to play the ball
with his bat
and (e) but for the interception, the ball would have hit
the wicket.
2. Interception of the ball
(a) In assessing points (c), (d) and (e) in 1 above, only the first
interception is to be considered.
(b) In assessing point (e) in 1 above, it is to be assumed that
the path of the ball before interception would have continued
after interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have
pitched subsequently or not.
3. Off side of wicket
The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the
striker’s stance at the moment the ball comes into play for
that delivery.
LAW 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
1. Out Obstructing the field
Either batsman is out Obstructing the field if he wilfully obstructs
or distracts the opposing side by word or action. It shall be
regarded as obstruction if either batsman wilfully, and without the
consent of the fielding side, strikes the ball with his bat or person,
other than a hand not holding the bat, after the ball has touched
a fielder. See 4 below.
77
2. Accidental obstruction
It is for either umpire to decide whether any obstruction or
distraction is wilful or not. He shall consult the other umpire if
he has any doubt.
3. Obstructing a ball from being caught
The striker is out should wilful obstruction or distraction by either
batsman prevent a catch being made.
This shall apply even though the striker causes the obstruction
in lawfully guarding his wicket under the provisions of Law 34.3
(Ball lawfully struck more than once).
4. Returning the ball to a member of the fielding side
Either batsman is out under this Law if, without the consent of the
fielding side and while the ball is in play, he uses his bat or person
to return the ball to any member of that side.
5. Runs scored
If a batsman is dismissed under this Law, runs completed by the
batsmen before the offence shall be scored, together with the
penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable. Other penalties that
may be awarded to either side when the ball is dead shall also
stand. See Law 42.17(b) (Penalty runs).
If, however, the obstruction prevents a catch from being made,
runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall not
be scored, but other penalties that may be awarded to either
side when the ball is dead shall stand. See Law 42.17(b)
(Penalty runs).
6. Bowler does not get credit
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
LAW 38 RUN OUT
1. Out Run out
(a) Either batsman is out Run out, except as in 2 below, if at any
time while the ball is in play
78
(i) he is out of his ground
and (ii) his wicket is fairly put down by the opposing side.
(b) (a) above shall apply even though No ball has been called
and whether or not a run is being attempted, except in the
circumstances of Law 39.3(b) (Not out Stumped).
2. Batsman not Run out
Notwithstanding 1 above, a batsman is not out Run out if
(a) he has been within his ground and has subsequently left it to
avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
(b) the ball has not subsequently been touched again by a fielder,
after the bowler has entered his delivery stride, before the
wicket is put down.
(c) the ball, having been played by the striker, or having come
off his person, directly strikes a helmet worn by a fielder and
without further contact with him or any other fielder rebounds
directly on to the wicket. However, the ball remains in play
and either batsman may be Run out in the circumstances of
1 above if a wicket is subsequently put down.
(d) he is out Stumped. See Law 39.1(b) (Out Stumped).
(e) he is out of his ground, not attempting a run and his wicket is
fairly put down by the wicket-keeper without the intervention
of another member of the fielding side, if No ball has been
called. See Law 39.3(b) (Not out Stumped).
3. Which batsman is out
The batsman out in the circumstances of 1 above is the one whose
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See Laws 2.8
(Transgression of the Laws by a batsman who has a runner) and
29.2 (Which is a batsman’s ground).
4. Runs scored
If a batsman is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall score the
runs completed before the dismissal.
, together with the penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable. Other penalties to either side that may be awarded when the ball is dead shall also stand. See Law 42.17 (Penalty runs).
If, however, a striker with a runner is himself dismissed Run out, runs completed by the runner and the other batsman before the dismissal shall not be scored. The penalty for a No ball or a Wide and any other penalties to either side that may be awarded when the ball is dead shall stand. See Laws 2.8 (Transgression of the Laws by a batsman who has a runner) and 42.17(b) (Penalty runs).
5. Bowler does not get credit
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
LAW 39 STUMPED
1. Out Stumped
(a) The striker is out Stumped if
(i) he is out of his ground
and (ii) he is receiving a ball which is not a No ball
and (iii) he is not attempting a run
and (iv) his wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper
without the intervention of another member of
the fielding side. Note Law 40.3 (Position of
wicket-keeper).
(b) The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of (a) above are
satisfied, even though a decision of Run out would be justified.
2. Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
(a) If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as
having been put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball
(i) rebounds on to the stumps from any part of his person
or equipment, other than a protective helmet
or (ii) has been kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the
wicket-keeper.

(b) If the ball touches a helmet worn by the wicket-keeper, the
ball is still in play but the striker shall not be out Stumped. He
will, however, be liable to be Run out in these circumstances if
there is subsequent contact between the ball and any member
of the fielding side. Note, however, 3 below.
3. Not out Stumped
(a) If the striker is not out Stumped, he is liable to be out Run out
if the conditions of Law 38 (Run out) apply, except as set out
in (b) below.
(b) The striker shall not be out Run out if he is out of his ground,
not attempting a run, and his wicket is fairly put down by the
wicket-keeper without the intervention of another member of
the fielding side, if No ball has been called.
LAW 40 THE WICKET-KEEPER
1. Protective equipment
The wicket-keeper is the only member of the fielding side permitted
to wear gloves and external leg guards. If he does so, these are to
be regarded as part of his person for the purposes of Law 41.2
(Fielding the ball). If by his actions and positioning it is apparent
to the umpires that he will not be able to discharge his duties as
a wicket-keeper, he shall forfeit this right and also the right to
be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of Laws 32.3
(A fair catch), 39 (Stumped), 41.1 (Protective equipment), 41.5
(Limitation of on side fielders) and 41.6 (Fielders not to encroach
on the pitch).
2. Gloves
If, as permitted under 1 above, the wicket-keeper wears gloves,
they shall have no webbing between the fingers except joining
index finger and thumb, where webbing may be inserted as a
means of support. If used, the webbing shall be
(a) a single piece of non-stretch material which, although it may
have facing material attached, shall have no reinforcement
or tucks.
(b) such that the top edge of the webbing
(i) does not protrude beyond the straight line joining the
top of the index finger to the top of the thumb.
(ii) is taut when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb
fully extended.
See Appendix C.
3. Position of wicket-keeper
The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until
(a) a ball delivered by the bowler
either (i) touches the bat or person of the striker
or (ii) passes the wicket at the striker’s end
or (b) the striker attempts a run.
In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this Law, the
umpire at the striker’s end shall call and signal No ball as soon as
possible after the delivery of the ball.
4. Movement by wicket-keeper
It is unfair if the wicket-keeper standing back makes a significant
movement towards the wicket after the ball comes into play and
before it reaches the striker. In the event of such unfair movement
by the wicket-keeper, either umpire shall call and signal Dead
ball. It will not be considered a significant movement if the
wicket-keeper moves a few paces forward for a slower delivery.
5. Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes
with the striker’s right to play the ball and to guard his wicket, Law
23.3(b)(vi) (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
If, however, the umpire concerned considers that the interference
by the wicket-keeper was wilful, then Law 42.4 (Deliberate
attempt to distract striker) shall apply.

6. Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his wicket,
the striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, he shall not be
out, except as provided for in Law 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from
being caught).
LAW 41 THE FIELDER
1. Protective equipment
No member of the fielding side other than the wicket-keeper shall
be permitted to wear gloves or external leg guards. In addition,
protection for the hand or fingers may be worn only with the
consent of the umpires.
2. Fielding the ball
A fielder may field the ball with any part of his person but if, while
the ball is in play he wilfully fields it otherwise,
(a) the ball shall become dead and 5 penalty runs shall be
awarded to the batting side. See Law 42.17 (Penalty runs).
The ball shall not count as one of the over.
(b) the umpire shall inform the other umpire, the captain of the
fielding side, the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the
captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
(c) the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match who shall take such
action as is considered appropriate against the captain and
player concerned.
3. Protective helmets belonging to the fielding side
Protective helmets, when not in use by fielders, shall only be
placed, if above the surface, on the ground behind the wicket-
keeper and in line with both sets of stumps. If a helmet belonging
to the fielding side is on the ground within the field of play, and the
ball while in play strikes it, the ball shall become dead. 5 penalty
runs shall then be awarded to the batting side. See Laws 18.11
(Runs scored when ball becomes dead) and 42.17 (Penalty runs).
4. Penalty runs not to be awarded
Notwithstanding 2 and 3 above, if from the delivery by the bowler
the ball first struck the person of the striker and if, in the opinion
of the umpire, the striker
neither (i) attempted to play the ball with his bat,
nor (ii) tried to avoid being hit by the ball,
then no award of 5 penalty runs shall be made and no other
runs or penalties shall be credited to the batting side except the
penalty for a No ball if applicable. See Law 26.3 (Leg byes not to
be awarded).
5. Limitation of on side fielders
At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more than
two fielders, other than the wicket-keeper, behind the popping
crease on the on side. A fielder will be considered to be behind the
popping crease unless the whole of his person, whether grounded
or in the air, is in front of this line.
In the event of infringement of this Law by the fielding side, the
umpire at the striker's end shall call and signal No ball.
6. Fielders not to encroach on the pitch
While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with
the bat or person of the striker, or has passed the striker’s bat,
no fielder, other than the bowler, may have any part of his person
grounded on or extended over the pitch.
In the event of infringement of this Law by any fielder other than
the wicket-keeper, the umpire at the bowler's end shall call and
signal No ball as soon as possible after the delivery of the ball.
Note, however, Law 40.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
7. Movement by fielders
Any significant movement by any fielder after the ball comes into
play and before the ball reaches the striker is unfair. In the event
of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call and signal Dead
ball. Note also the provisions of Law 42.4 (Deliberate attempt to
distract striker).
8. Definition of significant movement
(a) For close fielders anything other than minor adjustments to
stance or position in relation to the striker is significant.
(b) In the outfield, fielders are permitted to move in towards
the striker or striker’s wicket, provided that 5 above is not
contravened. Anything other than slight movement off line or
away from the striker is to be considered significant.
(c) For restrictions on movement by the wicket-keeper see Law
40.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
LAW 42 FAIR AND UNFAIR PLAY
1. Fair and unfair play - responsibility of captains
The responsibility lies with the captains for ensuring that play
is conducted within the spirit and traditions of the game, as
described in The Preamble - The Spirit of Cricket, as well as
within the Laws.
2. Fair and unfair play - responsibility of umpires
The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If
either umpire considers an action, not covered by the Laws, to be
unfair, he shall intervene without appeal and, if the ball is in play,
shall call and signal Dead ball and implement the procedure as
set out in 18 below. Otherwise the umpires shall not interfere with
the progress of play, except as required to do so by the Laws.
3. The match ball - changing its condition
(a) Any fielder may
(i) polish the ball provided that no artificial substance is
used and that such polishing wastes no time.
(ii) remove mud from the ball under the supervision of
the umpire.
(iii) dry a wet ball on a towel.
(b) It is unfair for anyone to rub the ball on the ground for any
reason, interfere with any of the seams or the surface of the
ball, use any implement, or take any other action whatsoever
which is likely to alter the condition of the ball, except as
permitted in (a) above.
(c) The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of
the ball.
(d) In the event of any fielder changing the condition of the
ball unfairly, as set out in (b) above, the umpires after
consultation shall
(i) change the ball forthwith. It shall be for the umpires
to decide on the replacement ball, which shall, in their
opinion, have had wear comparable with that which
the previous ball had received immediately prior to
the contravention.
(ii) inform the batsmen that the ball has been changed.
(iii) award 5 penalty runs to the batting side. See 17 below.
(iv) inform the captain of the fielding side that the reason for
the action was the unfair interference with the ball.
(v) inform the captain of the batting side as soon as
practicable of what has occurred.
(vi) report the occurrence as soon as possible to the Executive
of the fielding side and any Governing Body responsible
for the match, who shall take such action as is considered
appropriate against the captain and team concerned.
(e) If there is any further instance of unfairly changing the
condition of the ball in that innings, the umpires after
consultation shall
(i) repeat the procedure in (d)(i), (ii) and (iii) above.
(ii) inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for
the action taken and direct him to take off forthwith the
bowler who delivered the immediately preceding ball.
The bowler thus taken off shall not be allowed to bowl
again in that innings.
(iii) inform the captain of the batting side as soon as
practicable of what has occurred.
(iv) report this further occurrence as soon as possible to the
Executive of the fielding side and any Governing Body
responsible for the match, who shall take such action
as is considered appropriate against the captain and
team concerned.
4. Deliberate attempt to distract striker
It is unfair for any member of the fielding side deliberately to
attempt to distract the striker while he is preparing to receive or
receiving a delivery.
(a) If either umpire considers that any action by a member of the
fielding side is such an attempt, at the first instance he shall
(i) immediately call and signal Dead ball
(ii) warn the captain of the fielding side that the action is
unfair and indicate that this is a first and final warning.
(iii) inform the other umpire and the batsmen of what
has occurred.
Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery and the
ball shall not count as one of the over.
(b) If there is any further such deliberate attempt in that innings,
by any member of the fielding side, the procedures, other
than warning, as set out in (a) above shall apply. Additionally,
the umpire at the bowler's end shall
(i) award 5 penalty runs to the batting side. See 17 below.
(ii) inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason
for this action and, as soon as practicable, inform the
captain of the batting side.
(iii) report the occurrence, together with the other umpire, as
soon as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and
any Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players concerned.
5. Deliberate distraction or obstruction of batsman
In addition to 4 above, it is unfair for any member of the fielding
side, by word or action, wilfully to attempt to distract or to obstruct
either batsman after the striker has received the ball.
(a) It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any
distraction or obstruction is wilful or not.
(b) If either umpire considers that a member of the fielding side
has wilfully caused or attempted to cause such a distraction
or obstruction he shall
(i) immediately call and signal Dead ball.
(ii) inform the captain of the fielding side and the other
umpire of the reason for the call.
Additionally,
(iii) neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery.
(iv) 5 penalty runs shall be awarded to the batting side. See
17 below. In this instance, the run in progress shall be
scored, whether or not the batsmen had crossed at the
instant of the call. See Law 18.11 (Runs scored when
ball becomes dead).
(v) the umpire at the bowler’s end shall inform the captain of
the fielding side of the reason for this action and, as soon
as practicable, inform the captain of the batting side.
(vi) the ball shall not count as one of the over
(vii) the batsmen at the wicket shall decide which of them is
to face the next delivery
(viii) the umpires shall report the occurrence as soon as
possible to the Executive of the fielding side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players concerned.
6. Dangerous and unfair bowling
(a) Bowling of fast short pitched balls
(i) The bowling of fast short pitched balls is dangerous and
unfair if the umpire at the bowler’s end considers that by
their repetition and taking into account their length, height
and direction they are likely to inflict physical injury on the
striker, irrespective of the protective equipment he may
be wearing. The relative skill of the striker shall be taken
into consideration.
(ii) Any delivery which, after pitching, passes or would have
passed over head height of the striker standing upright
at the crease, although not threatening physical injury,
shall be included with bowling under (i) both when the
umpire is considering whether the bowling of fast short
pitched balls has become dangerous and unfair and
after he has so decided. The umpire shall call and signal
No ball for each such delivery.
(b) Bowling of high full pitched balls
(i) Any delivery, other than a slow paced one, which passes
or would have passed on the full above waist height of
the striker standing upright at the crease is to be deemed
dangerous and unfair, whether or not it is likely to inflict
physical injury on the striker.
(ii) A slow delivery which passes or would have passed on
the full above shoulder height of the striker standing
upright at the crease is to be deemed dangerous and
unfair, whether or not it is likely to inflict physical injury
on the striker.
7. Dangerous and unfair bowling - action by the umpire
(a) As soon as the umpire at the bowler's end decides under 6(a)
above that the bowling of fast short pitched balls has become
dangerous and unfair, or, except as in 8 below, there is an
instance of dangerous and
Unfair bowling as defined in 6(b)
above, he shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is
dead, caution the bowler, inform the other umpire, the captain
of the fielding side and the batsmen of what has occurred. This
caution shall continue to apply throughout the innings.
(b) If there is any further instance of dangerous and unfair bowling
by the same bowler in the same innings, the umpire at the
bowler’s end shall repeat the above procedure and indicate to
the bowler that this is a final warning.
Both the above caution and final warning shall continue to apply
even though the bowler may later change ends.
(c) Should there be any further repetition by the same bowler in
that innings, the umpire shall
(i) call and signal No ball.
(ii) direct the captain, when the ball is dead, to take the
bowler off forthwith. The over shall be completed by
another bowler, who shall neither have bowled the
previous over nor be allowed to bowl the next over.
The bowler thus taken off shall not be allowed to bowl
again in that innings.
(iii) report the occurrence to the other umpire, the batsmen
and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting
side.
(iv) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and to
any Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and bowler concerned.
8. Deliberate bowling of high full pitched balls
If the umpire considers that a high full pitch which is deemed to
be dangerous and unfair, as defined in 6(b) above, was deliberately
bowled, then the caution and warning prescribed in 7 above shall
be dispensed with. The umpire shall
(a) call and signal No ball.
(b) direct the captain, when the ball is dead, to take the bowler
off forthwith.
(c) implement the remainder of the procedure as laid down in
7(c) above.
9. Time wasting by the fielding side
It is unfair for any member of the fielding side to waste time.
(a) If the captain of the fielding side wastes time, or allows any
member of his side to waste time, or if the progress of an over
is unnecessarily slow, at the first instance the umpire shall
call and signal Dead ball if necessary and
(i) warn the captain, and indicate that this is a first and
final warning.
(ii) inform the other umpire and the batsmen of what
has occurred.
(b) If there is any further waste of time in that innings, by any
member of the fielding side, the umpire shall
either (i) if the waste of time is not during the course of
an over, award 5 penalty runs to the batting side.
See 17 below.
or (ii) if the waste of time is during the course of an over,
when the ball is dead, direct the captain to take the
bowler off forthwith. If applicable, the over shall
be completed by another bowler, who shall neither
have bowled the previous over nor be allowed to
bowl the next over.
The bowler thus taken off shall not be allowed to
bowl again in that innings.
(iii) inform the other umpire, the batsmen and, as soon
as practicable, the captain of the batting side of
what has occurred.
(iv) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as
soon as possible to the Executive of the fielding
side and to any Governing Body responsible
for the match, who shall take such action as is
considered appropriate against the captain and
team concerned.
10. Batsman wasting time
It is unfair for a batsman to waste time. In normal circumstances
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the bowler
is ready to start his run up.
(a) Should either batsman waste time by failing to meet this
requirement, or in any other way, the following procedure shall
be adopted. At the first instance, either before the bowler
starts his run up or when the ball is dead, as appropriate, the
umpire shall
(i) warn the batsman and indicate that this is a first and
final warning. This warning shall continue to apply
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each
incoming batsman.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the other batsman and the
captain of the fielding side of what has occurred.
(iii) inform the captain of the batting side as soon
as practicable.
(b) If there is any further time wasting by any batsman in that
innings, the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the
ball is dead
(i) award 5 penalty runs to the fielding side. See 17 below.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the other batsman, the captain
of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the
captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
(iii) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the batting side and to
any Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players and, if appropriate, the
team concerned.
11. Damaging the pitch - area to be protected
(a) It is incumbent on all players to avoid unnecessary damage
to the pitch. It is unfair for any player to cause deliberate
damage to the pitch.
(b) An area of the pitch, to be referred to as 'the protected area’,
is defined as that area contained within a rectangle bounded
at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the popping creases
and 5ft/1.52m in front of each and on the sides by imaginary
lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1ft/30.48cm
from it.
12. Bowler running on the protected area after delivering the ball
(a) If the bowler, after delivering the ball, runs on the protected
area as defined in 11(b) above, the umpire shall at the first
instance, and when the ball is dead,
(i) caution the bowler. This caution shall continue to apply
throughout the innings.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the captain of the fielding side
and the batsmen of what has occurred.
(b) If, in that innings, the same bowler runs on the protected area
again after delivering the ball, the umpire shall repeat the
above procedure, indicating that this is a final warning.
(c) If, in that innings, the same bowler runs on the protected area
a third time after delivering the ball, when the ball is dead the
umpire shall
(i) direct the captain of the fielding side to take the bowler
off forthwith. If applicable, the over shall be completed
by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled the
previous over nor be allowed to bowl the next over. The
bowler thus taken off shall not be allowed to bowl again
in that innings.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the batsmen and, as soon
as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what
has occurred.
(iii) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and to
any Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and bowler concerned.
13. Fielder damaging the pitch
(a) If any fielder causes avoidable damage to the pitch, other
than as in 12(a) above, at the first instance the umpire shall,
when the ball is dead,
(i) caution the captain of the fielding side, indicating
that this is a first and final warning. This caution shall
continue to apply throughout the innings.
(ii) inform the other umpire and the batsmen of what
has occurred.
(b) If there is any further avoidable damage to the pitch by any
fielder in that innings, the umpire shall, when the ball is dead,
(i) award 5 penalty runs to the batting side. See 17 below.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the batsmen, the captain of the
fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the captain of
the batting side of what has occurred.
(iii) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the fielding side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players concerned.
14. Batsman damaging the pitch
(a) If either batsman causes avoidable damage to the pitch, at
the first instance the umpire shall, when the ball is dead,
(i) caution the batsman. This caution shall continue to
apply throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform
each incoming batsman.
(ii) inform the other umpire, the other batsman, the captain
of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the
captain of the batting side.
(b) If there is a second instance of avoidable damage to the pitch
by any batsman in that innings
(i) the umpire shall repeat the above procedure, indicating
that this is a final warning.
(ii) additionally he shall disallow all runs to the batting side
from that delivery other than the penalty for a No ball or
a Wide, if applicable. The batsmen shall return to their
original ends.
(c) If there is any further avoidable damage to the pitch by any
batsman in that innings, the umpire shall, when the ball
is dead,
(i) disallow all runs to the batting side from that delivery other
than the penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable.
The batsmen shall return to their original ends.
(ii) additionally award 5 penalty runs to the fielding side.
See 17 below.
(iii) inform the other umpire, the other batsman, the captain
of the fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the
captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
(iv) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the batting side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players concerned.
15. Bowler attempting to run out non-striker before delivery
The bowler is permitted, before entering his delivery stride, to
attempt to run out the non-striker. The ball shall not count in the over.
The umpire shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible if
the bowler fails in the attempt to run out the non-striker.
16. Batsmen stealing a run
It is unfair for the batsmen to attempt to steal a run during the
bowler’s run up. Unless the bowler attempts to run out either
batsman - see 15 above and Law 24.4 (Bowler throwing towards
striker’s end before delivery) - the umpire shall
(i) call and signal Dead ball as soon as the batsmen cross
in any such attempt.
(ii) return the batsmen to their original ends.
(iii) award 5 penalty runs to the fielding side. See 17 below.
(iv) inform the other umpire, the batsmen, the captain of the
fielding side and, as soon as practicable, the captain of
the batting side of the reason for the action taken.
(v) report the occurrence, with the other umpire, as soon
as possible to the Executive of the batting side and any
Governing Body responsible for the match, who shall
take such action as is considered appropriate against
the captain and player or players concerned.
17. Penalty runs
(a) When penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball
is dead the umpire shall signal the penalty runs to the scorers
as laid down in Law 3.14 (Signals).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Law 21.6 (Winning hit or
extras), penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where the
Laws require the award. Note, however, that the restrictions
on awarding penalty runs in Laws 26.3 (Leg byes not to be
awarded), 34.4(d) (Runs permitted from ball struck lawfully
more than once) and Law 41.4 (Penalty runs not to be
awarded) will apply.
(c) When 5 penalty runs are awarded to the batting side, under
either Law 2.6 (Player returning without permission) or Law
41 (The fielder) or under 3, 4, 5, 9 or 13 above, then
(i) they shall be scored as penalty extras and shall be in
addition to any other penalties.
(ii) they shall not be regarded as runs scored from either
the immediately preceding delivery or the following
delivery, and shall be in addition to any runs from those
deliveries.
(iii) the batsmen shall not change ends solely by reason of
the 5 run penalty.
(d) When 5 penalty runs are awarded to the fielding side, under
Law 18.5(b) (Deliberate short runs), or under 10, 14 or 16
above, they shall be added as penalty extras to that side’s total
of runs in its most recently completed innings. If the fielding
side has not completed an innings, the 5 penalty extras shall
be added to its next innings.
18. Players’ conduct
If there is any breach of the Spirit of the Game by a player failing
to comply with the instructions of an umpire, or criticising his
decisions by word or action, or showing dissent, or generally
behaving in a manner which might bring the game into disrepute,
the umpire concerned shall immediately report the matter to the
other umpire.
The umpires together shall
(i) inform the player’s captain of the occurrence, instructing
the latter to take action.
(ii) warn him of the gravity of the offence, and tell him that
it will be reported to higher authority.
(iii) report the occurrence as soon as possible to the
Executive of the player’s team and any Governing Body
responsible for the match, who shall take such action as
is considered appropriate against the captain and player
or players, and, if appropriate, the team concerned.

APPENDIX D
DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS OF WORDS OR PHRASES NOT
DEFINED IN THE TEXT
The Toss is the toss for choice of innings.
Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is
expected to start or, in the case of a one day match, on the day that
match is due to take place.
Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the
day on which the toss is to take place.
During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
Conduct of the game includes any action relevant to the match at any
time on any day of the match.
Implements of the game are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
The field of play is the area contained within the boundary edge.
The square is a specially prepared area of the field of play within
which the match pitch is situated.
Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket.
Behind in relation to stumps and creases, is on the side further from
the stumps and creases at the other end of the pitch. Conversely, in
front of is on the side nearer to the stumps and creases at the other
end of the pitch.
A batsman’s ground - at each end of the pitch, the whole area of the
field of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for
a batsman.
In front of the line of the striker’s wicket is in the area of the
field
of play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps
at one end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to
the boundary.
Behind the wicket is in the area of the field of play behind the
imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at one end; this line to
be considered extended in both directions to the boundary.
Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker's end, as
defined above, but in line with both sets of stumps, and further from
the stumps than the wicket-keeper.
Off side/on side - see diagram below:
Umpire - where the word ‘umpire’ is used on its own, it always
means 'the umpire at the bowler’s end’, though this full description
is sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Otherwise, the phrases
the umpire concerned, the umpire at the striker’s end, either umpire
indicate which umpire is intended.
Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to
make jointly, independently of the players.
Fielder is any one of those 11 or fewer players currently on the
field of play who together compose the fielding side. This definition
includes not only both the bowler and the wicket-keeper but also
any legitimate substitute fielding instead of a nominated player. It
excludes any nominated player absent from the field of play, or who
has been absent from the field of play and who has not obtained the
umpire's permission to return.
A player going briefly outside the boundary in the course of
discharging
his duties as a fielder is not absent from the field of play nor, for
the
purposes of Law 2.5 (Fielder absent or leaving the field), is he to be
regarded as having left the field of play.
Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler's arm during which normally
he releases the ball for a delivery.
Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made,
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back
foot lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the
same stride.
The ball is struck/strikes the ball unless specifically defined
otherwise,
mean 'the ball is struck by the bat’/’strikes the ball with the bat'
Rebounds directly/strikes directly and similar phrases mean without
contact with any fielder but do not exclude contact with the ground.
External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for
protection against external blows.
For a batsman,
Items permitted are a helmet, external leg guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.
For a fielder, only a helmet is permitted, except in the case of a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are also permitted.
Clothing - anything that a player is wearing that is not classed as external protective equipment, including such items as spectacles or jewellery, is classed as clothing, even though he may be wearing some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being carried by a batsman does not come within this definition of clothing.
103
The bat - the following are to be considered as part of the bat:
- the whole of the bat itself.
- the whole of a glove (or gloves) worn on a hand (or hands) holding the bat.
- the hand (or hands) holding the bat, if the batsman is not wearing a glove on that hand or on those hands.
Equipment - a batsman’s equipment is his bat, as defined above, together with any external protective equipment that he is wearing.
A fielder’s equipment is any external protective equipment that he is wearing.
Person - a player’s person is his physical person (flesh and blood) together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment that he is wearing except, in the case of a batsman, his bat.
A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the batsman's person.
No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player's person unless it is attached to him.
For a batsman, a glove being held but not worn is part of his person.
For a fielder, an item of clothing or equipment he is holding in his hand or hands is not part of his person.
APPENDIX E - The bat
Grading of bats - Grades A, B and C are bats conforming to Law 6 sections 1 to 8 inclusive. Any other bats are graded below C and are not recognised in the Laws. Grade A bats, the top grade, may be used at any level. Grades B, C and lower grades may be used only at or below levels determined by the Governing Body for cricket in the country concerned.
The blade - The face of the blade is its main striking surface. The back is the opposite surface. The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, separating the face and the back.
104
The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along that portion of the blade between the first entry point of the handle and the point at which the blade first reaches its full width.
The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as a pair.
The sides, one on each side of the blade, are along the rest of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
Adhesives - Throughout, adhesives are permitted only where essential and only minimal in quantity.
Materials in handle - As a proportion of the total volume of the handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted to one-tenth for Grades A and B and one-fifth for Grade C. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 in/8.26cm into the lower portion of the handle.
Binding and covering of handle - The permitted continuation beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length of the handle, of:
2.  5 in/6.35 cm for the twine binding
3.  75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip.
Length and width
(a) The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.5 cm
(b) The width of the bat shall not exceed 4.25 in/10.8 cm at its widest part.
(c) Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not exceeding their specified thicknesses, may be additional to the
dimensions above.
Length of handle - Except for bats of size 6 and less, the handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
105
Covering of blade - The cloth covering permitted for Grade C bats shall be of thickness not exceeding 0.012 m/0.3 mm before treatment as in 6.6(d).
Protection and repair of blade - The material permitted in 6.6(a) shall not exceed 0.04 in/1 mm in thickness. In 6.6(a)(ii), the repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade more than 0.79 in/2 cm in each direction beyond the limits of the damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any overlapping shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/1 mm in total thickness.
In 6.6(d), the use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer more than 0.004 in/0.1 mm in thickness is not permitted.
Toe and side inserts - The wood used must not be more than 0.3 in/0.89 cm in thickness.
The toe insert shall not extend from the toe more than 2.5 in/6.35 cm up the blade at any point.
Neither side insert may extend from the edge more than 1 in/2.54 cm across the blade at any point.
Toe protection - The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/3mm.
Commercial identifications - These identifications must not exceed 0.08 in/0.2 mm in thickness. On the back of the blade they must cover no more than 50% of the surface. On the face of the blade, they must be confined within the top 9 in/22.86 cm, measured from the bottom of the grip.
106
