The NEW UNIVERSAL 1.1AGAZ1NE for NOVSHBER, 175>2.
The GAIAS at CRICKET, as settled by the CRICKET-CLUB, in
1744, and play’d at the ARTILLERY-GROUND, LONDON.
’Vi.th a curious REPRESENTATION of the same, engraved from the Paintings in
VAUXEALL-GARDENS.
The pitching the first wicket is to be determined by the cast of a
piiece of money.
Y/hen the first wicket is pitch’d, and the popping-crease cut, which
tauist be exactly three feet ten inches from the wicket, the other wicket
is to be pitch’d directly opposite at twenty-two yards distance, and the
either popping-crease cut three feet ten inches before it.
The bov.’ling-creases must be cut in a direct line from each stump.
The stumps must be twenty-two inches long, and the bail six inches.
The ball must weigh between five and six ounces.
When the wickets are both pitch’d, and all the creases cut, the
psarty that wins the toss-up may order which side shall go in first, at
h:is option.
The LAV.S for the BOWLERS
Four balls and over
The bowler must deliver the ball, with one foot behind the crease,
e'ven with the wicket: and when he has bowled one ball or more, shall
boowl to the number four before he changes wickets, and he shall change
biut once in the same innings.
He may order the player that is in at his wicket to stand on which
s ide of it he pleases at a reasonable distance.
If he delivers the ball with his hinder foot over the bowling-crease.
t;he umpire shall call no ball, though she be struck, or the player is
boowl’d out; which he shall do without being ask’d, and no person shall
hiave the right to ask him. . . ,
LAV/S for the STRIKERS, or those that are in
If the wicket is bowl’d down, it’s out.
If he strikes or treads down, or he falls himself upon the wicket in
2
s triking (but not in over-running) it’s out. A stroke or nip over or
uinder his bat, or upon his hands (but not arms) if the ball be held before
s;he touches ground, though she be hugg’d to the body, it’s out.
If in striking both his feet are over the popping-crease, and his
wicket put down, except his bat is down within, it’s out.
If he runs out of his ground to hinder a catch, it’s out.
If a ball is nipp’d up, and he strikes her again wilfully before she
come to the wicket, it’s out.
If the players have cross’d each other, he that runs for the wicket
tthat is put down, is out; if they are not cross’d, he that returns is out.
If in running a notch, the wicket is struck down by a throw, before
hiis foot, hand, or bat is over the popping-crease, or a stump is hit by
tthe ball, though the bail was down, it’s out.
But if the bail is down before, he that catches the ball must strike
sa stump out of the ground ball in hand, then it’s out.
CA ' (
If the striker touches, or takes up the ball before she is lain
(nuite still, unless ask’d by the bowler or wicket-keeper, it’s out.
BAT, FOOT, or HAND over the CREASE
V/hen the ball has been in hand by one of the keepers or stoppers,
sand the player has been at home, he may go where he pleases till the
niext ball is bowled.
If either of the strikers is cross’d in his running ground design-
edly, which design must be determined by the umpires. N.B. The umpires
may order that notch to be scored. V/hen the ball is hit up, either of
tthe strikers may hinder the catch in his running ground; or if she is
hiit directly across the wickets, the other player may place his body
anywhere within the swing of the bat, so as to hinder the bowler from
catching her; but he must neither strike at her, nor touch her with his
hiands.
If a striker nips a ball up just before him, he may fall before his
wicket, or pop down his bat, before she come-§) to it, to save it.
The bail hanging on one stump, though the ball hit the wicket, it’s
mot out.
- 5 -
LAWS for the WICKET-KEEPERS
The vzicket-keepers shall stand at a reasonable distance behind the
wicket, and shall not move till the ball is out of the bowler’s hand,
aand shall not by any noise incommode the striker; and if his hands,
kxnees, foot or head, be over or before the wicket, though the ball hit
iit, it shall not be out.
LaWS for the UMPIRES
To allow tvzo minutes for each man to come in when one is out, and
t;en minutes between each hand.
To mark the ball that it may not be changed.
They are sole judges of all outs and ins, of all fair or unfair
p.day, of all frivolous delays, of all hurts, whether real or pretended,
aind are discretionally to allow what time they think proper before the
graine goes on again.
In case of a real hurt to a striker, they are to allow another to
ccome in, and the person hurt to come in again: but are not to allow a
firesh man to play, on either side, on any account.
They are sole judges of all hindrances, crossing the players in
rimming, and standing unfair to strike, and in cases of hindrance may
Dirder a notch to be scored.
They are not to order any man out, unless appealed to by one of
^hie players.
These laws are to the umpires jointly.
Each umpire is the sole judge of all nips and catches, ins and
tuts, good or bad runs, at his own wicket, and his determination shall
■et absolute; and he shall not be changed for another umpire, without
Zhie consent of both sides.
When the four balls are bowl’d, he is to call over. These laws
=rre separately.
When both umpires call play three times, ’tis at the peril of
awing the game from them that refuses to play.