THE 1785 CODE OF THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
(Authority: "The Laws of the Noble
Game of Cricket as established at
the Star and Garter, Pall-Mall by
a Committee of Noblemen and Gentle-
men", print published September 1st
1785 by John Wallis, No, 16 Ludgate
Street and I, Binns, Sheffield.)
The LAWS of the NOBLE GAME of CRICKET,
as Established at the Star and Garter Pall-Mall by a
Committee of Noblemen & Gentlemen.
THE BALL
Must not weigh less than five Ounces and a half, nor more
that five Ounces and three Quarters.
It cannot be changed during the Game, but with Consent of
both Parties.
THE BAT
Must not exceed Four Inches and One Quarter in the Widest
Part.
THE STUMPS
Must be Twenty two Inches, the Bail Six Inches long.
N.B. It is lately settled to use three Stumps instead
of two to each Wicket, the Ball the same Length
as above.
THE BOWLING CREASE
Must be parallal with the Stumps Three Feet in Length, with
a Return Crease.
THE POPPING CREASE
Must be Three Feet Ten Inches from the Wickets; and the
Wickets must be opposite to each other, at the Distance of
Twenty-two Yards.
THE PARTY
which goes from home,
Shall have the choice of the Innings, and the pitching of
the Wickets; which shall be pitched within Thirty Yards of
a Centre fixed by the Adversaries.
When the Parties meet at a Third Place, the Bovzlers
shall toss up for the pitching of the First Wicket, and the
Choice of going in.
THE BOWLER
Must deliver the Ball with one Foot behind the Bowling
Crease, and within the Return Crease, and shall bowl four
balls before he changes Wickets; which he shall do but once
in the same Innings.
He may order the Player at his Wicket to stand on
which side of it he pleases.
THE STRIKER
is out,
If the Bail is bowled off, or the Stump bowled out of the j
Ground.
Or if the Ball from a stroke over or under his Bat or
upon his Hands (but not Wrists, ) is held before it touches J
the Ground, though it be hugged to the Body of the Catcher.
Or, if in striking, both his Feet are over the Popping
Crease, and his Wicket is put down, except his Bat is
grounded within it.
Or if he runs out of his Ground to hinder a Catch.
Or if the Ball is struck up, and he wilfully strikes it >
again.
Or if in running a Notch, the Wicket is struck down
by a Throw, or with the Ball in Hand before his Foot, Hand
or Bat is grounded over the Popping Crease, but if the
Bail is off, a Stump must be struck out of the Ground by
the Ball.
Or if the Striker touches or takes up the Ball before
it has lain still, unless at the Request of the Opposite
Party.
Or if the Striker puts his Legs before the Wicket, with
a Design to stop the Ball, and actually prevents the Ball
from hitting the Wicket by it.
If the Players have crossed each other, he that runs
for the Wicket that is put down is out; if they are not
crossed, he that has left the Wicket that is put down is out.
When the Ball has been in the Bowler's or Wicket
Keeper's Hands, the Strikers need not keep within their
Ground, till the Umpire has called Play, but if the Player
-3-
goes out of his Ground with an Intent to run before the
Ball is delivered the Bowler may put him out.
When the Ball is struck up in the Running Ground between
the Wickets, it is lawful for the Strikers to hinder its
being catched; but they must neither strike at, nor touch
the Ball with their Hands.
If the Ball is struck up, the Striker may guard his
Wicket either with his Bat or his Body.
In Single Wicket Matches, if the Striker moves out
of the Ground to strike at the Ball, he shall be allowed
no Notcli for such stroke.
The
WICKET KEEPER
Shall stand at a reasonable distance behind the Wicket
and shall not move till the Ball is out of the Bowler’s
Hand, and shall not by any Noise incommode the Striker,
and if his Hands, Knees, Foot or Head be over or before the
Wicket, though the Ball touch it, it shall not be out.
THE UMPIRES
Shall allow Two Minutes for each Man to come in, and
Fifteen Minutes between each Innings; when the Umpire shall
call Play, the Party refusing to play shall lose the Match.
They are the sole Judges of fair and unfair Play, and
all Disputes shall be determined by them.
When a Striker is hurt, they are to allow another to
come in, and the Person hurt, shall have his Hands in any ■
part of that Innings.
They are not to order a Player out, unless appealed to
by the Adversaries. • But if the Bowler’s Foot is not
behind the Bowling Crease and within the Return Crease when
he delivers the Ball, the Umpires unasked must call No Ball.
If the Strikers run a short Notch the Umpires must call
No Notch.
BETS.
If the Notches of one Player are laid against another,
the Bet depends on both Innings, unless otherwise specified.
If one Party beats the other in one Innings, the
Notches in the First Innings shall determine the Bet.
But if the other Party goes in a second Time, then
the Bet must be determined by the Numbers on the Score.
THE END.