THE. 1816 CODE OF THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
(Authority: "The Laws of Cricket” as revised by
the Cricket Club, at St. Mary-Le-Bone, 1816,
printed by T. Craft, Wells Street, Oxford Street,
London.)
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
THE BALL
must not wiigh less than five ounces and a half, nor more
than five ounces and three quarters. At the beginning or
each innings either may call for a new Ball.
THE BAT
must not exceed four inches and a quarter in the widest
part.
THE STUMPS,
must be twenty-four inches out of the ground, the bails
seven inches in length.
THE BOWLING CREASE
must be in a line with the stumps, and three feet in length,
with a return crease.
THE POPPING CREASE
must be three feet ten inches from the wicket, and parallel
to it.
THE WICKETS
must be opposite to each other, at a distance of ^enty-two
yards, which shall be pitched within thirty yarcis
fixed by the adversaries.
It is not lawful for either party, during a match,
without the consent of the other, to alter the groun y r°
ing watering, covering, mowing, or beating. Tnis
not meant to prevent the Striker from beating the ground
with his bat, near where he stands, during the innings, or to
prevent the bowler from filling up the holes, watering
ground, or using sawdust, when the ground is wet.
THE BOWLER
shall deliver the ball with one foot behind the bowling-
crease, and within the return crease, and must bowl four
balls before he changes wickets, which he is to do but
once in the same innings.
The ball must be bowled (not thrown or jerked), and
delivered underhand, with the hand below the elbow. But
if the ball be jerked, or the arm extended from the body
horizontally, and any part of the hand be uppermost, or the
hand horizontally extended when the ball is delivered, the
Umpire shall call "No Ball".
He may order the Striker, at his wicket, to stand
on which side of it he pleases.
If the bowler tosses the ball over the Striker's head,
or bowls it so wide that the Striker cannot play at it, the
party that is in shall be allowed one notch, to be put down
to the/ and those balls not to be reckoned is any of the
four balls.
If the bowler bowls a No Ball, the Striker may play
at it, and be allowed all the runs he can get, and shall
not be put out except by running out.
In the event of a change of bowling, nor more than
two balls to be allowed in practice.
The bowler who takes the two balls, to be obliged to
bowl four balls.
THE STRIKER IS OUT
if the bail is bowled off, or the stump bowled out of the
ground;
Or, if the Ball, from a stroke over or under the bat, or upon
his hand, (but not wrists) is held before it touches the
ground, although it be hugged to the body of the catcher; '
Or, if in striking, or at any other time while the ball is
in play, both his feet are over the popping-crease' and his
wicket put down; except his bat is grounded within it; //
Or,if in striking at the ball he hits down his wicket;
Or, if under pretence of running a notch, or otherwise,
either of the strikers prevent a ball from being caught,
the striker of the ball is out;
Or, if the ball is struck up, and he wilfully strike it again
Or, if in running a notch, the wicket is struck down by a
throw, or with the ball in hand, before his foot, hand, or
bat is grounded over the popping-crease. But if the Bail is
off, the stump must be struck out of the ground;
Or, if the striker touches or takes up his ball while in play
unless at the request of the opposite party;
Or, if with his foot or leg he stops the ball which the
bowler, in the opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket
has pitched in a straight line to the wicket and would have
hit it.
If the players have crossed each other he that runs for the
wicket which is put down, is out; if they are not crossed, he
that has left the wicket which is put down, is out.
- 3 -
When a ball is caught no notch is to be reckoned.
When a striker is run out, the notch they were running
is not to be reckoned.
If a lost ball is called, the Striker shall be allowed
four, but if more than four are run before "Lost Ball" is called,
then the Striker to have all they have run.
When a ball has been in the bowler’s, or wicket-keeper’s
hands, it is considered as no longer in play, and the
strikers need not keep within their ground till the umpire
has called ’’play" but, if the player goes out of his ground
with an Intent to run before the ball is delivered, the bowler
may put him out.
If the striker is hurt, he may retire from his wicket,
and have his innings at any time in that innings. If a striker
is hurt, some other Person may be allowed to stand out for him,
but not go in.
If any person stops the ball with his hat, the ball is
to be considered as dead, and the opposite party to add
five notches to their score; if any are run, they are to
have five in all.
If the ball is struck up, the striker may guard his
wicket either with his bat or his body.
In Single Wicket matches, if the Striker moves out of his
ground to strike at the ball, he shall be allowed no notch for
such stroke
THE WICKET-KEEPERS
must stand at a reasonable distance behind the Wicket, and must
not move till the Ball is out of the Bowler’s hand, not incommode
the Striker by any noise; and, if his hands, knees, feet, or
head, be over or before the wicket, though the ball hit it,
it shall not be out.
THE UMPIRES
are the sole judges of fair and unfair play, and all disputes
shall be determined by them; each at his own wicket; but in
case of a catch, which the umpire at the wicket cannot see
sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply to the other umpire,
whose opinion is conclusive.
The Umpires, in all matches, to pitch fair wickets,
and the parties to toss for the choice of innings.
They shall allow two minutes for each man to come in;
and fifteen minutes between each innings; when the umpire
shall call "play", the party refusing to play shall lose the
match.
They are not to order a player out, unless appealed to
by their adversaries.
But, if the bowler’s foot is not behind the bowling
crease, and wihin the return crease, when he delivers the
- 4 -
ball, they must, unasked call "no ball”.
If the striker runs a short notch, the umpire must call
"no notch”.
The umpire at the bowler’s wicket is to be first applied
to, to decide on all catches.
The umpires are not to be changed during the match,
but by the consent of both parties.
BETS.
If the notches of one player are laid against another,
the bets depend on the first innings, unless otherwise speci-
fied.
If the bets are made upon both innings, and one party
beats the other in one innings, the notches in the first
innings shall determine the bet.
But if the other party goes in a second time, then the
be,st must be determined by the number on the score.