The 1820 Code of the "Law? of Cricket."
(Authority: "A print of the Laws of Cricket as
revised by the Cricket Club, at St. Tary-Le-Br,ne
in 1820".)
-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-
THE BALL must weigh not less than Five Ounces and a Half,
nor more than Five Ounces and Three Quarters. At the beginning
of each Innings either Party nay call for a new Ball.
THE BAT
must not exceed Four Inches and One Quarter, in the widest part.
THE STUYPS
must be Twenty-six Inches out of the ground, the Bails Seven
Inches in length.
THE BOWLING CREASE
must be in ?. line with, the Stumps, Three Feetin lengtn, with
a PETURN CREASE.
THE DOPPING CREASE
must be Four Feet from the Wicket, and parallel to it.
the wickets
must be opposite to each other, at the distance of i
Yards: which shall be pitched within Thirty Yards of a centre
fixed by the Adversaries.
Tt ,,n+- lawful for either Party during a match,
without the consent of the other, to alter the Ground, by ro
watering, covering, mowing, or beating: ..his ru . i- - -
to prevent the Striker from beating the Ground with np;.
where he stands during the Innings, or to prevent the
from filling up holes, watering his ground, or using sawdust,
&c. when the ground is wet.
THE BOWLER
shall deliver the Ball with one foot behind the Bowling Crease
• nd within the Return Crease, and shall bowl Four Balls before
he changes wickets, which he shall do but once in the same
Innings.
thrown or jerked), and
below the Elbow. Rut
7i extended from the body
■ hand be uuo
The Ball mu^t be bowled (not.
delivered, underhand, with the, wan
the Ball be jerked, or^tne arn b^’ck of the hand be upper ost
)??r^2nhli1JyHoFPzoMlIy excluded then the Ball is delivered,
2
ne Umpire sha.ll call "No Ball.11
He may order the Striker, at his wicket, to stand on
rich side of it he pleases.
If the Bowler tosses the Ball over the Striker’s head,
r bowls it so wide that the Striker cannot play at it, the
a:rty that is in <=hall be allowed One Notch, to be put down to
n.e Byes, and those Balls not to be reckoned as any of the
jror Balls.
If the Bowler bowls a No Ball, the Striker may play at it,
nd be allowed all the Runs he can get, and shall not be put out,
pcept by running out.
In the event of a change of Bowling, no more than Two Balls
b be allowed in practice.
The Bowler who takes the Two Balls, to be obliged to bowl
)iur Balls.
THE
STRIKER IS OUT
the Bail is bowled off,
or the Stump bowled out of the ground.
Or, if the Ball, from a stroke over or under the Bat, or
son his hand (but not wrists), is held befo”e it touches the
••ound, although it be hugged to the body of the Catcher.
Or, if in striking or at any other time while the Ball is
i play, both his feet are over the Popping Crease r.nd his
'Cket put down, except his Bat is grounded within it.
Or, if in striking at the Ball he hits down his Wicket.
Or, if ’>nde?’ pretence of running a Notch, or otherwise,
tther of the strikers prevent a Ball fro.’ being caught, the
iriker of the Ball is out.
Or, if the Ball is struck up, and he wilfully strikes it
<2. in. •
Or, if in running a Notch, the Wicket is struck down by a
arow, or with the Ball in Hand, before his Foot, Hand, or R^t
grounded over the Popping Crease. But, if the Bail is off,
se Stump must be struck out of the ground.
Or, if any part of the Striker’s dress knocks down the
-cket.
Or, if the Striker touches or takes up the Ball while in
~y, unless at the request of the other Party.
If ’.■ ith his foot or leg he stops the Ball, which the Bowler
' e o ’ ion of the Umpir it the Bowler’ Wicket shall ’
si-tched in a straight line to the Wicket, and would have hit it.
If the Players h-ve crossed each other, he that runs for
?--c Wick ich is put down, is out; if they are not crossed,
Le- that h- s left the ’"icket which is put down, is out.
'■’hen a Bellis caught, no Notch to be reckoned.
’■”.ien : Striker is run out,
s' not to be reckoned.
the 'Totch they •••ere running for
If ■ lost Ball is called, the Striker shall be allowed Four
ust if ore th-n Four are run before lost Ball is called, then
hie Striker to h:-ve all they have run.
When the Ball hrs been in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s
smds, it is considered as no longer in play; and the Strikers
esed not keep within their ground till the Umpire has called
Play11; But if the player goes out of his ground with an
intent to ru i before the Ball is delivered, the Bowler may put
i.m out.
If the Striker is hurt, he may retire from his Wicket,
md have his Innings at any time in that Innings.
If a Striker is hurt, some other Person may be allowed to
tcand out for him, but not go in.
If any Person stops the Ball with his Hat, the Ball is to
es considered as dead, and the opposite Party to add Five Notches
os their Score; if any are run, they are to have Five in all.
If the Ball is struck up, the Striker may guard his '"icket
i.ther with his Bat or his Body.
In SINGLE-WICKET ■'■ITCHES, if the Striker moves out of his
found to strike at the Ball, he shall be allowed no Notch for
rch Stroke.
THE WICKET KEEPERS
wall stand at a reasonable distance behind the Wicket, and
i.all not move till the Bell is out of the Bowler’s hand, and
rail not by any noise incommode the Striker; and if his hands,
rees feet, or head, be over or before the Wicket, though the
ill hit it, it shall not be out.
THE UMPIRES.
1 e sole judges of fair and unfair play, and all Disputes shall
i determined by them, each as his own Wicket; but in case of
(Catch, which the Umpire at the Wicket cannot see sufficiently

-Zi-
to decide upon, he way apply to the other Umpire, whose opinion.
Is conclusive.
The Umpires, in all Watches, to ,~itch fair Wickets, and
the Parties to toss for the choice of innings.
The,. sha|l allow Two Finutes for each man to come in,
'nd Fifteen ’/Inates between ench Innings; when the Umpire shall
;all "Play,11 the Party refusing to play shall lose the Watch.
They arg not to order a Player out, unless appealed to by
the Adversaries.
But, if the Bowler’s Foot, is not behind the Bowling Crease,
imd within the Return Crease, when he delivers the Ball, they
v.ist, unasked, call "No Ball."
If the Striker runs a Short Notch, the Umpire "ust call
’FMo Notch."
That the Umpire at the Bowler's Wicket shall be first
applied to, to decide on all Catches.
The Umpires are not to be changed during the Natch, but
W the consent of both Parties.
BETS.
If the Notches of one Player are laid against another, the
■ets depend on the First Innings, unless otherwise soecified.
If the Bets are made upon both Innings, and ope Party beats
hie other in One Innings, the Notches in the First Innings shall
eterriine the Bet.
But if the other Party goes in a second time, then the
Kt must be determined by the number on the Score.