T”-: LA'"S OF CRICKET.
Revised by the Marylebone Club in the year 1823.
( Printed by Carpenter and Son, Engravers and Printers,
16 Aidgate pigh=Street. )
( Broadsheet in sloane=stanley Collection. )
1'.
2.
The Ball
MUS'D not weigh less than five Ounces and a ha If, nor more
than five ounces and three quarters. At the Beginning of
each innings either Party may call for a new Ball.
The pat
must not exceed: four inches and one quarter in the widest
Part.
The stumps.
3« must be twenty-six inches out of the Ground; the BA11S
seven inches in Length.
( This Law is altered in contmporary ink to read"raust be
twenty-seven inches out of;.the Ground; the BAILS eight
Inches in Length: and of’“sufficient thickness to prevent
the Ball from passing through. " )
The Bowling crease
ip. must be in a Line with the stumps, six Feet seven inches
in Length, (the Stumps in the centre) with a RETURN CREASF
at each end towards the Bowler at right Angles.
The Popping crease
5« must be four "Peet from the wicket, and parallel to it.
The wickets
6. must be pitched opposite to each other by the Umpires, at
the Distance of twenty-two Yards.
7- It shall not be lawful for either Party during a Match,
without the consent of the other, to alter the Ground by
rolling, watering, covering mowing, or beating:This Rule
is not meant to prevent the striker from beating the Ground
with his Bat near where he stands during the innings, nor
to prevent the Bowler from filling up poles, watering his
Ground, or using sawdust, etc. when the Ground shall be wet.
8. After Rain the wickets may be changed with the Consent of
both Parties.
The Bowler
9- shall deliver the Ball with one poot behind the Bowling
-2-
Crease, and within the Return Crease; and shall bowl
four Balls before he; change Wickets, which he shall be
permitted to do but once in the same innings.
10. The Ball must be bowled (not thrown, nor jerked), and
delivered underhand, with the Hand below the Elbow. But
if the Ball be jerked, or the Arm* extended from the Body
horizontally, and any Part of the Back of the Hand be
uppermost, or the Hand horizontally extended when the Ball
shall be delivered the umpire shall call "No Ball”.
11- He may order the Striker at his Wicket to stand on which
Side of it he pleases.
12. If the Bowler toss the Ball over the Striker's Head, or
bowl it so wide that it shall be out of Distance to be
played at, the umpire (either with or without an Appeal
from the Party receiving-the innings) shall adjudge one
Run to the striker, even although he attempt to hit it;
which shall be put down to the Byes: and such Ball shall
not be reckoned as any of the four Balls.
13. If the Bowler bowl a "No Ball" the striker may play at it,
and be allowed all the Runs he can get; and shall not be
put out, except by .running out.
14- In the Event of a Change of bowling no more then two Balls
shall be allowed in Practice.
15« The Bowler who takes the two Balls shall be obliged to
bowl four Balls.
The Striker is Out
16. If the Bail be bowled off, or the stump bowled out of the
Gr ound.
17- Or, if the Ball, from a' Stroke of the Bat, or Hand, (but
not wrist) be held before it touch the Ground, although
it be hugged to the Body of the Catcher.
18. Or, if in striking, or at any other mime while the Ball
shall be in Play, both his Feet be over the Popping crease,
and his Wicket put down except his Bat be grounded within
it.
19« Or, if in striking at the Ball he hit down his wicket.
20.	Or, if under Pretence of running or otherwise, either of
the strikers prevent a Ball from being caught, the striker
of the Ball is out.
21.	Or, if the Ball be struck, and he wilfully strike it again.
22.	or, if in running the wicket be struck down by a Throw,
or by the Hand, or Arm (with Ball in Hand) before his
Foot! Hand, or Bat be grounded over the Popping crease.
But if the Bail be off the Stump must be struck out of
the Ground.
23-	Or, if any part of the striker’s Dress knock down the
Wicket.
24-	Or, if the striker touch, or take up the Ball while in
Play, unless at the Request of the other Party.

-5-
25-	Or, if with any Part of his Person he stop the Ball,
which in the opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler's
Ticket .shall have been delivered in a straight line to
the Striker's "icket, and would have hit it.
26. If the players have crossed each other he that runs for
the Ticket which is put down is out.
27- Then a Ball shall be caught no pun shall be recpned.
28.	Then a Striker shall be run out the Run which they were
attempting shall not be reckoned.
29.	If a lost Ball shall.ibe called the striker shall be
allowed six Runs; but if more then six shall have been
run before lost pall shall have been called, then the
Striker shall have all which have been run.
30.	Then the Ball has been in the Bowler^s, or Ticket Keeper's
Bands it is considered as no longer in Play; and the
Strikers need not keep within their Ground till the umpire
has called "Play"; but if the Player go out of his Ground
with an intent to run before the pall be delivered the
Bowler may put him out.
31 • If the striker be hurt he may retire from his "/icket, and
return to it at any time in that innings.
32- If a striker be hurt some other person may be allowed to
stand out for him, but not to go in.
33- No Substitute in the yield shall be allowed to bowl,
keep Ticket, stand at the point, or middle Ticket, or
stop behind to a fast Bowler, unless with the Consent of
the adverse party. The umpires shall enforce this Law.
3^. If any Person stop the Ball with his pat the Ball shall'
be considered as dead, and the opposite Party shall add
five Runs to their score; if any be run, they shall have
five in all-
35- If the Ball be struck the striker maig guard his Ticket
either with his pat, or his Body.
The "/icket Keeper
35- shall stand at Reasonable Distance behind the Ticket, and
shall not move till the Ball be out of the Bowler's Hand,
and shall not by any Noise incommode the striker; and if
any part of his Person be over or before the ’/'icket,
although the Ball hit it, the striker shall not be out.
The Umpires
37- are sole judges of ’fair, and unfair Play; and all Disputes
shall be determined by them, each at his own Ticket; but
in case of a Catch which the Umpire at the ’"/icket bowled
from cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply
to the other umpire; whose opinion is conclusive.
38. The umpires in all Matches shall pitch fair Tickets, and
the Parties! shaLb?toss for the Choice of innings.
39* They shall allow two Minutes for each man to come in, and
fifteen Minutes between each innings: when the Umpires
shall call "Play”, the Party refusing to play shall lose
the Match.
40. They are not to order a player out, unless appealed to by
the Adversaries.
41 • but if the Bowler's Toot be not behind the Bowling crease,
(within the peturn crease) when he*shall deliver the Ball
they must, unasked, call "no Ball".
42. If the Striker run a short pun the umpire must call "One
Short".
43- The Umpires are not to be changed during the Match, but by
the consent of both parties.
LAWS FOR SINGLE TICKET-.
When there shall be less than 'five players on a Side,
Pounds shall be placed twenty-two yards each in a Line
from the Off, and Leg stump.
The Ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the
Striker to a Run; which Run cannot be obtained unlesshe
touch the Bowling stump ( Or Crease in a line with it)
with his Bat, or some Part of his Person; or go beyond
them; returning to the popping crease as at double
Wicket according to the 22nd Law.
When the striker shall hit the Ball, one of his Feet must
be on the Ground, and behind the popping crease; other-
wise the umpire shall call "No Hit".
When there shall be less than five players on a Side
neither Byes, nor Overthrows shall be allowed; nor shall
the striker be caught out behind wicket, nor stumped out.
The field’s Man must return the Ball so that it shall cross
the Play between the Wicket and the Bowling stump, or
between the Bowling stump, and the Bounds; the Striker
may run till the Ball shall be so returned.
After the striker shall have made one Run, if he start
again he must touch the Bowlihg stump, and turn before
the Ball shall cross the Play to entitle him to another.
The striker shall be entitled to three Runs for lost Ball,
and the same Number for Ball stopped with Hat; with
Reference to the 29th, and 34th Law at double Wicket.
-5-
When there shall be more than four Players on a side there
shall be no Bounds. All Hits, Byes, and Overthrows shall
then be allowed.
The Bowler is subject to the same Laws as
Not more than one Minute shall be allowed
at double yicket.
between each Ball.
BETS.
If the Runs of one Player be laid against those of another
the Bets depend on the first innings, unless otherwise
specified.
If the Bets be made upon both innings, and one Party beat
the other in one innings the Runs in the first innings
shall determine the Bet.
But if the other Party go in a second Time, then the Bet
must be determined by the Number on the score