THE 1828 CODE OF THE LAWS OF CRICKET
(Authority: "TJie Sporting Magazine"
of 1828 . as quoted in Frederick
Lillywhite’s "Cricket Scores and
Biographies" Vol.II, p.p. 37-39.
On p.p. 135-137 the Laws of
1831 are given, and the alter-
ations are noted at the foot of
the 1828 code, as here extracted.)
1828
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
1.	The Ball must not weigh less than five ounces and a
half, nor more than five ounces and three quarters.
At the beginning of each innings either party may call for
a new ball.
2.	The Bat must not exceed four inches and one quarter in
the widest part.
3.	The Stumps must be twenty-seven inches out of the ground,
the bails eight inches in length; the stumps of sufficient
thickness to prevent the ball from passing through.
4.	The Bowling-crease must be in a line with the stumps,
six feet eight inches in length (the stdmps in the centre),
with the return-crease at each end, at right angles.
5.	The Popping-crease must be four feet from the wicket,
and parallel to it.
6.	The Wickets must be pitched opposite to each other by
the umpires at the distance of twenty-two yards.
7.	It shall not be lawful for either party during a match,
without the consent of the other, to alter the ground, by
rolling, watering, covering, mowing, or beating. This
rule is not meant to prevent the striker from beating the
ground with his bat near where he stands during the innings;
nor to prevent the bowler from filling up holes, watering
his ground, or using sawdust, &c., when the ground shall
be wet.
8.	After rain the wickets may be changed with the consent
of both parties.
9.	The Bowler shall deliver the ball with one foot behind
the bowling-crease, and within the return-crease; and
shall bowl four balls before he changes wickets, which he
shall be permitted to do but once in the same innings.
-2-
10.	The ball must be bowled (not thrown nor jerked), and
delivered underhand with the hand below the elbow. But
if the ball be jerked or the arm extended from the body
horizontally, and any part of the back of the hand be
uppermost, or the hand horizontally extended when the ball
shall be delivered, the umpire shall call "No Ball."
11.	He may order the striker at
which side of it he pleases.
his wicket to stand on
12.	if the bowler toss the ball over the striker’s head,
or bowl it so wide that it shall be out of distance to be
played at, the umpire (either with or without an appeal
from the party receiving the innings) shall adjudge one
run to the striker, even though he attempt to hit it - which
shall be put down to the byes, and such ball shall not be
reckoned as any of the four balls.
13.	if the bowler bowl a "no ball" the striker may play
at it, and be allowed all the runs he can get, and shall
not be put out, except by running out.
14.	In the event of a change of bowling, no more than two
balls shall be allowed in practice.
15.	The bowler who takes the two balls shall be obliged
to bowl four balls.
16.	The Striker is out if the bail be bowled off, or the
stump be bowled out of the ground.
17.	Or, if the ball, from a stroke over or under the bat,
or upon his hands (but not wrists), be held before it touch
the ground, although it be hugged to the body of the
catcher.
18.	or, if in striking, or at any other time while the
ball is in play, both his feet be over the popping-crease,
and his wicket is put down, except his bat be grounded
within it.
19.	Or, if in striking at the ball, he hits down his wicket.
20.	Or, if under pretence of running a notch, or otherwise,
either of the strikers prevent a ball from being caught,
the striker of the ball is out.
21.	Or, if the ball be struck, and he wilfully strikes
it again.
22.	Or, if in running a notch, the wicket be struck down
by a throw, or by the hand or arm (with ball in hand),
before his foot, hand, or bat be grounded over the popping-
crease; but if the bail be off,
out of the ground.
the stump must be struck
23.	Or, if any part of the striker’s dress knock down the
wicket.
24.	Or, if the striker touch or take up the ball while in
play, unless at the request of the other party.
25.	Or, if with any part of his person he stops the ball,
which in the opinion of the umpire at the bowler's wicket
shall have been delivered in a straight line to the strikerls
wicket, and would have hit it.
26.	If the players have crossed each other, he that runs
for the wicket which is put down is out.
27.	When a ball is caught, no notch shall be reckoned.
28.	When a striker is run out, the notch which they were
running for is not to be reckoned.
29.	If a "Lost Ball" shall be called, the striker shall be
allowed six; but if more than six shall have been run
before "Lost Ball" shall have been called, then the striker
shall have all which have been run.
30.	When the ball has been in the bowler's or wicket-
keeper’s hands, it is considered as no longer in play, and
the strikers need not keep within their ground till the
umpire has called "Play"; but if the player go out of his
ground with an intent to run before the ball be delivered,
the bowler may put him out.
31.	If the striker be hurt,
and return to it at any time
he may retire from his wicket
in that innings.
32.	If a striker be hurt, some other person may be allowed
to stand out for him, but not to go in.
33.	ho substitute in the field shall be allowed to bowl,
keep wicket, stand at the point or middle-wicket, or
stop behind to a fast bowler, unless with the consent of
the adverse party.
34.	If any person stop the ball with his hat, the ball
shall be considered as dead, and the opposite party shall
add five notches to their score; if any be run, they are
to have five in all.
35.	If the ball be struck, the striker may guard his wicket
either with his bat or his body.
36.	The Wicket-keeper shall stand at a reasonable distance
behind the wicket, and shall not move till the ball be out
of the bowler’s hand, and shall not by any noise incommode
the striker; and if any part of his person be over or
before the wicket, although the ball hit it, the striker
shall not be out.
37.	The Umpires are sole judges of fair and unfair play,
and all disputes shall be determined by them, each at his
own wicket; but in case of a catch, which the umpire at
the wicket bowled from cannot see sufficiently to decide
upon, he may apply to the other umpire, whose opinion is
conclusive „
38.	The umpires in all matches shall pitch fair wickets,
and the parties shall toss for the choice of innings.
39.	They shall allow two minutes for each man to come in,
and fifteen minutes between each innings; when the umpire
shall call "Play,” the party refusing to play shall lose
the match.
40.	They are not to order a player out unless appealed to
by their adversaries.
41.	But, if the bowler’s foot be not behind the bowling -
crease, and within the return-crease, when he shall deliver
the ball, they must, unasked, call "No Ball."
42.	If the striker run a short notch, the umpire must
call "No Notch."
43.	The umpires are not to be changed during the match
but by the consent of both parties.
LAW J FOB SINGLE WICKET.
When there shall be less than five players on a side,
bounds shall be placed, twenty-two yards each, in a line
from the off and leg stump.
The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the
striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless
he touch the bowling stump with his bat, or some part of
his person; returning to the popping-crease as at double
wicket, according to the 22nd Law.
When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet'
must be on the ground, and behind the popping-crease; other
wise the umpire shall call "No Hit."
When there shall be less than five players on a side,
no byes nor overthrows shall be allowed. The fieldsman
-5-
must return the ball so that it shall cross the play
between the wicket and the bowling stump, or between the
wicket and the bounds. The striker may run till the ball
shall be so returned.
After the striker shall have run one notch, if he
start again he must touch the bowling stump, and turn before
the ball shall cross the play to entitle him to another.
The striker shall be entitled to three notches for
lost ball, and the same number for ball stopped with hat,
with reference to the 29th and 44th Laws at double
wicket.
When there shall be more than four players on a side,
there shall be no bounds. All hits, byes, and overthrows
shall then be allowed.
The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double
wicket.
Mot more than one minute shall be allowed between
each ball.
BETS.
If the notches of one player be laid against another,
the bets depend on the first innings, unless otherwise
specified.
If the bets be made upon both innings, and one party
beat the other in one innings, the notches in the first
innings shall determine the bet.
But, if the other party go in a second time, then the
bet must be determined by the number on the score.
(Copied from the "Sporting Magazine" of 1828)
On Monday, May 19th 1828, the members of the M.C.C.,
spec tally summoned, met at the Pavilion at Lord's, when it
was resolved-
"That the 10th Law be repealed, and that the following
be substituted
"The ball shall be bowled. If it be thrown or
jerked, or if any part of the hand or arm be above
the ELBOW at the time of delivery, the umpire shall
call 'No Ball.’ "
The Club at this meeting also resolved that the 12th
Law should be altered by erasing the word "byes", and