Jj.hJ’ Cricket Ground
20th March 1835
Dear Sir
I	have the pleasure to submit far your consideration a list of the laws of
Cricket revised in this present year. Those parts which are printed in Italics are new, & to them I
beg leave to direct your particular attention.
At the Anniversary 14 May it will be put to the vote “that
these Laws be adopted.”
am, dear Sir,
your most faithful Servant
Secy MCC.
•w
THE LAWS OF CRICKET
revised by the Marylebone Club in the Year 1835.
1	THE BALL
must weigh not less than five ounces & a half, nor more than five ounces & throe quarters; it
must measure not less than nine inches, nor more than nine inches # one eighth in circum-
ference. At the beginning of each innings either party may call for a new ball.
2	THE BAT
must not exceed four inches & one quarter in the widest part: it must not be more than thirty
eig(d inches in length.
8 THE STUMPS
must be twenty seven inches out of the ground ; the bails eight inches in length ; the stumps of
sufficient thickness to prevent the ball from passing through.
4 THE BOWLING CREASE
must be in a line with the stumps; six feet eight inches in length; the stumps in the centre ;
with a return crease at each end towards the bowler at right angles.
5 THE POPPING CREASE
must be four feet four inches from the wicket, & parallel to it; unUm ited inlength, but not
shorter than the bowling crease.
-<r 6 THE WICKETS
must be pitched opposite to each other by the umpires at the distance of twenty two yards.
7' It shall not be lawful for either party during a match, without the consent of the other, to
alter the ground by rolling, watering, covering, mowing, or ber.f'ng. This rule is not meant to
prevent the striker from beating the ground with his bat near to the spot where he stands during
the. innings, nor to prevent the bowler from filling up holes with saw-dust &c. when the ground
shall be wet.
8 After rain the wickets may be changed with the consent of both parties.
: 9 THE BOWLER
shall deliver the ball with one foot behind the bowling crease, and within the return-crease, &
shall bowl four balls before he change wickets; which he shall be penr tted to do once only in the
same innings.
10	The ball must be bowled. If it be thrown, or jerked, or if the hand be above the shortJer
in the delivery the umpire must call “No Ball.”
II	He may require the striker at the wicket from which he is bowling to stand on that side of
it which he may direct.
12	If the bowler loss the ball over the striker’s head, or bow! it so wide that it shr' be out of
distance lu be played al, the umpire (even although he attempt to hitit) shall adjudge one run to the
parties receiving the innings, either with, or without an appeal from them, which, shall bo put down
to the score of wide balls, A’ such ball shall not be Ireckoned as mur of the four balls. IKhen tht
umpire shall have called “Wide Ball” one run only shall be honed, and th' ball 'hall be
considered dead.
13	If the bowler deliver a “No Ball” the striker may play at it, & be allowed as many runs as
he can get, and he shall not be; nt out except by running out. 1 u the event of no run being ob-
taincd by any other means then inc* run shall be scored.
14	In the event of a. change of bowling no more than two balls shall be allowed lor
the sake of practice.
15	If the bowler try one ball he shall be obliged to bowl four.
16	THE STRIKER IS OUT
11 cither of the bails be bowled off, or if a stump be bowled out of the ground.
17	Or, if the ball from a stroke of the bat, or band, but not wrist, be held before it touch the
ground, although it bo hugged to the body of the catcher.
18	Or, if in striking, or at any other time while the ball shall be in play both his feet he over
the popping crease, & his wicket put down except his bat be grounded within it.
19	Or, if in striking at the ball he hit down his wicket.
20	Or, ij under pretence of running, or otherwise either of the strikers prevent a ball fiom
being caught, the striker of the ball is out.
21	Or, if the ball be struck, and he wilfully strike it again.
22	Or, if in running the wicket be struck down by a throw or by the hand, or arm (with ball
in hand) before his bat (in hand) or some part of his person be grounded over the popping crease.
But if the bails be off a slump must be struck out of the ground.
23	Or, if any part of the striker’s dress knock down the wicket.
21 Or, if the .striker touch, or take up the ball while in play, unless at the request of the
opposite party.
25 On if with any part of his person he stop the ball which in the opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket shall have been delived in a straight line ta the striker’s wicket, & would have hit it.
26 If the player? have crossed each other he that runs for the wicket which is put down is out.
A ball bc.ng caught, no run shall be reckoned.
28	A striker being run out, that run which he and his partner were aitemping shall not be
reckoned.
27
29	Ifa lost ball be called the striker shall be allowed six i an* ; but if more than six shall have
been run before lost ball shall have been called, then the striker shall have all which have been run.
30	After the ball shall have been lodged, $ definitively settled in the wicket keeper’s or
bowler s hand it shall be consul / dead. Jj when the bowler is about to deliver (he ball the
striker at his wicket shall go c ide the popping crease before such actual delivery, the said
bolder mag put him out.
31	If the strike- behur c may retire from his wicket and return to it any time during ’hat
innings.
<
32	if a striker be hurt some other person may stand out for him, but not go in.
3b »substitute in the field shall be allowed tc keep wicket, stanu at th? point, cover
the poiut, or stop behind in any case.
34	If any fieldsman s op the ball with his hat the ball shall be considered dead, and the oppo-
site party shall .-did five runs io their score; if any be run they shall have five in all.
35	The ball having been hit the striker may guard his wicket with his bat, or with any part of
his body except his hand; that the twenty fourth law (by which ke his forbidden to touch, or
take up the ball) may not be disobeyed.
*
36	The wicket keeper shall not lake the ballfbr the purpose of stumping uni Hit have
passed the wicket; he shall stand at a reasonable distance behind the wicket, & shall not move
till the ball be out of the bowly’s hand ; he shall not by \ny noise incommode the striker | and if
any part of his person be over or before the wicket, although the ball hit it the striker shall*,not be
out. K V
37	The umpires shall not stand more than stewardsfrom the wicket ; they are sole judges
of Jair, and unfakplajS and alldisputes shall be determined by them, each at his own wicket; but
in else of a catch which the urnprte at the wicket bowl&l from eannot see sufficiently to decide upon
he rrRv apply to lhApther uiopircwhose opinion shalb.be conclusive.
38	The umpires i\u matches s\[l pitch fair wick\, & the parties shall toss up for the choice
ofinningK

mm
etween each
C match.
e return
crease
some part
tw\runs
irk the
of his person ovet* the popping create, the umpire for every such failure shall deduct tied
from the number intended to have been run; because such striker not having run home i,
first instance, cannot have started insthe second from the proper goal.
\ \ ’
43	No umpire shall be alloiced to bet. \
44	No umpire is to be changed during a match unless with the consent of both parties, except
in case of a violation of the 43d law ; then either parly may dismiss the transgressor.
45	After the delivery of four balls the umpire must call “ Over”; but not until the ball
shall be lodged^ <$’ definitively settled in't/ie wicket keeper’s or bowler's hand; the ball shall
then be considered dead: nevertheless if an idea be entertained that either of the strikers is out
a question may'be put previously to> but not not after the delivery of the nqxt ball.
46	The umpin^ must take especial care do call “No Ball ” instantLy upon delivery J
“Wide Ball ” as soon as ever it shall pass tlie striker.
Laws for Single Wicket.
1 When there shall be less than five players on a side, bounds shall be placed twenty-two
yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
2	The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the striker to a run ; which run cannot be
obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with it with his bat, or some part of
his person, or go beyond them ; returning to the popping crease as at double wicket, according to
the 22J* law.
3	When the striker shall hit the ball one of his feet must be on the ground, and behind the
popping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “No Hit.”
4	When there shall be less than five players on a side neither byes nor overthrows shall be
allowed ; nor shall the striker be caught out behind wicket, nor stumped out.
5	The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the play between the wicket, & the
bowling stump, or between the bowling stump, and the bounds ; the striker may run till the ball
he so returned.
6	After the striker shall have made one run, if he start again he must touch the bowling
stump, and turn before the ball shall cross the play to entitle him to another.
7	The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the same number for ball slopped
with hat; with reference to the 29th & 34 th law of double wicket.
8	When there shall be more than four players on a side there shall be no bounds. All hits;
byes, and overthrows shall then be allowed.
9	The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double wicket.
10	Not more than one minute shall bo allowed between each ball.
Bets
1. No bet is payable on any match unless it bo played out, or given up.
2 If the runs of one player be betted against those of another the bet depends on the first
innings, unless otherwise specified.
3	If the bet be mjule upon both innings, and one party beat the other in one innings the runs
in the first innings sh&ll determine it.
4	If the other party go in a secofid time then the bet must be determined by the numberon
the score. * t f
BATHO ft BINGLEY. Printer,, 16. Aklgnte High Street.


The Ball
1.	must not weigh less than five ounces and a half
nor more than five ounces and three quarters.
It must measure not less than nine inches, nor
more than nine inches and one quarter in cir-
cumference. At the beginning of each innings
either party may call for a new ball.
The Bat
2.	must not exceed four inches and one quarter in the
widest part; it must not be more than thirty-
eight inches in length.
Th© Stumps
3.	must be three in number, twenty-seven inches out
of the ground, the bails eight inches in length ;
the stumps of equal and of sufficient thickness
to prevent the ball from passing through.
Th© Bowling Crease
4.	must be in aline with the stumps; six feet eight
inches in length, the stumps in the centre; with
a return crease at each end towards the bowler
at right angles.
Th® Popping Crease
5.	must be four feet from the wicket, and paralleled
to it; unlimited in length, but not shorter than
the bowling crease.
TPhe Wickets
6.	must be pitched opposite to each other by the
umpires at the distance of twenty-two yards.
7.	It shall not be lawful for either party during a
match, without the consent of the other, to alter
the ground by rolling,watering,covering, mow-
ing or beating. This rule is not meant to
prevent the striker from beating the ground
with bis bat near to the spot where he stands
during the innings, nor to prevent the bowler
from filling up holes with saw dust, &c when
the ground shall be wet.
8.	After rain the wickets may be changed with the
consent of both parties.
The Bowler
9.	Shall deliver the ball with one foot on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within
the return crease, and shall bowl four balls
before he change wickets: which he shall bo
permitted to do once only in the same inn-
ings.
10.	The ball must be bowled, not thrown or jerked,
and the hand must not be above the shoulder
in delivery; and whenever the bowler shall so
closely infringe on this rule in cither of the
above particulars, as to make it difficult for the
umpire at the bowler’s wicket to judge whether
the ball has been delivered within the true
intent and meaning of this rule or not, the
umpire shall call “ No Ball.”
11.	He may require the .striker at the wicket from
which he is bowling to stand on that side of
it which be may direct.
12 Ifthe bowler shall toss the ball over the striker’s
head, or bowl it so wide that in the opinion cf
the umpire it shall not be fairly within the
reach of the batsman, he shall adjudge one run
to the parties receiving the innings, either with
or without au appeal, which shall be put down
to the score of wide balls; such ball shall not
be reckoned as one of the four balls; but if
the batsman shall by any means bring himself
within reach of the ball the run shall not be
adjudged.
13.	If the bowler deliver a “No Ball’’ or a " Wide
Ball,” the striker shall be allowed as many runs
as he can get, and he shall not be put out
except by running out. In the event of no
run being obtained by any other means, then
one run shall be added to the score, of “No
Balls” or “Wide Balls’1 as the ca.se may be.
All runs obtained for “Wide Balls” to be
scored to “ Wide Balls.” The names of the
bowlers who bowl “ Wide Balls/’ or “ No
Balls/’ in future to be placed on the score to
show the parties by whom either score is made.
14.	At the beginning of each innings the umpire
shall call •‘Play,"’ from that time to the end of
each innings, no trial ball shall be allowed to
any bowler.
The Striker is Out
15.	If either of the bails be bowled off, or if a stump
be bowled out of the ground.
16.	Or, if the ball from the strok *e bat, or
hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touch
the ground, although it be hugged o the body
of the catcher.
17.	Or. if in striking, or at any other time while the
ball shall be in play, both his feet shall be over
the popping crease, and his wicket put down.
except his bat be grounded within it.
IS. Or, if in striking at the ball he hit down vs
wicket.
1 [
19.	Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise
either of the strikers prevent a ball from
being caught the striker of the ball is out.
20.	Or, if the ball be struck and he wilfully strike
it again.
21.	Or, if in running the wicket be struck down by
a throw, or by the hand or ann, (with ball in
hand) before his bat (in hand) or some part of
his person be grounded over the popping
crease. But if both the bails be off, a stump
must be struck out of the ground.
22.	Or, if any part of the striker's dress knock down
the wicket.
23.	Or, if the striker touch, or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of the
opposite party.
24.	Or, if with any part of his person he stop the
ball which in the. opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket shall have been pitched in a
straight line from it/to the striker's wicket,
and would have hit it.
25.	If the players have crossed each other, he that
runs for the wicket which is put down is out.
2G. A ball being caught no run shall be reckoned.
27.	A striker being run out, that run which he and
his partner were attempting shall not be
reckoned.
28.	If a lost ball be called, the striker shall be
allowed six runs ; but if more than six shall
have been run before lost ball shall have been
called, then the striker shall have all which
have been run.
29.	After the ball shall have been finally settled in
the wicket keepers or bowler’s hand, it shall
be considered dead : but when the bowler is
about to deliver the ball, if the striker at his
wicket go outside the popping crease before
such actual delivery, the said bowler may
put him out, unless (with reference to the
21st law7,) his bat in hand, or some part of his
person be within the popping crease.
30.	If the striker be hurt he may retire from his
wicket, and return to it any time during that
innings.
31.	If the striker be hurt, some other person may
stand out for him, but not go in.
32.	No substitute in the field shall be allowed to
bowl, keep wicket, stand at the point, cover
the point, or stop behind in any case.
33.	If any fieldsman stop the bril with his hat, the
ball shall be considered dead, and the opposite
party shall add five runs to their score; if any
be run, they shall have five in al/.
34.	The ball having been hit, the striker may guard
his wicket with bis bat, or with any part of his
body except his hands ; that the twenty-third
law may not be disobeyed.
(
35.	The wicket keeper shall not take the bull for the
purpose of stumping, until it have passed the
wicket; he shall not move till the ball be out
of the bowler’s hand: he shall not by any
noise incommode the striker; and if any part
of his person be over or before the wicket,
although the ball hit it, the striker shall not be
out.
36.	The umpires are sole judges of fair or unfair
play;.and all disputes shall be determined by
them, each at his own wicket; but in case of
a catch which the umpire at the wicket bowled
from, cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he
may apply to the other umpire; whose opinion
shall be conclusive.
37.	The umpires in all matches shall pitch fair
wickets, and the parties shall toss up for the
choice of innings. The umpires shall change
wickets, after each party has had one innings.
38.	They shall allow two minutes for each striker
to come in, and ten minutes between each
innings. When the umpire shall call “ Play"
t * the party refusing to play shall Jose the match.
39.	They are not to order a striker out unless ap^
pealed to by the adversaries.
40.	But if one of the bowler’s feet be not on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within
the return crease when he shall deliver the
ball, the umpire at his wicket unasked must
call “No Ball.”
41.	If either of the strikers run a short run, the
umpire must call “One Short
42.	No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
43.	No umpire is to be changed during a match,
unless with the consent of both parties, except
in case of a vi Jation of the 42nd law; then
either party may dismiss the transgressor.
44.	After the de livery of four balls, the umpire
must call “Over.” but not until the ball shall
be finally settled in the wicket keepers, or
bowler's hand; the ball shall then be con-
sidered dead; nevertheless if an idea be
entertained that either of the strikers is out, a
question may be put previously to, but not
after the delivery of the next ball.
45.	The umpire must take especial care to call “No
Ball instantly upon delivery, “ Wide Ball'’
as soon as eve Ji- shall pass the striker.
4*. The olavers who go 'n second shall follow their
hniugs, if they have obtained one hundred runs
less than their antagonist.
47. When one of the strikers shall have been put
out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to
any person, until the next striker shall come in.