FOR
Cricket,
Boating,
Tennis,
AND
All Athletic
Outfits,
THE
LAWS OF GRIOKST.
Passed by the Marylebone Cricket Club
April 21, 1884.
W. J, Pile
The CITY ATHLETIC OUTFITTER
171, Fenchurch St., E.C.
And 71 to 73, Park Street, Regent’s Park, N W
FLANNEL BLAZERS
FLANNEL SHIRTS
FLANNEL TROUSERS
FLANNEL CAPS ..
STRAW HATS
SHOES ........
BELTS .. .. 1/.
.. 10/6 to 25/-
7/6 & 9/6
8/6, 9/6,10/6,12/6,14/6
.. .. 1/-, 1/6,2/-
............. 2/6
.. from 2/6, to 15/-
RIBBONS .. 1/-
W. J. PILE,
171, FENCHURCH ST., E.C.
Sole City Agent for the “ Perfecta ” Grass Straw Ha
Weighs only 2 oz. Price 2/6.
SEND STAMP FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
1. A match is played between two sides of eleven
players each, unless otherwise agreed to ; each side
has two innings, taken alternately, except in the
case provided for in Law 54. The choice of innings
shall be decided by tossing.
2. The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run
is scored—1st, So often as the batsmen after a hit,
or at any time while the ball is in play, shall have
crossed, and made good their ground from end to
end. 2nd, For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41,
and allowances under 44. Any run or runs so
scored shall be duly recorded by scorers appointed
for the purpose. The side which scores the greatest
number of runs wins the match. No match is won
unless played out or given up, except in the case
provided for in Law 45.
3. Before the commencement of the match two
umpires shall be appointed, one for each end.
4. The ball shall weigh not less than 5Joz., nor
more than 5|oz. It shall measure not less than
9in. nor more than 9,iin. in circumference. At tho
beginning of each innings either side may demand a
new ball.
ii,
5.	The bat shall not exceed 4|in. in the widest
part; it shall not be more than 38in. in length.
6.	The wickets shall be pitched opposite and
parallel to each other, at a distance of 22 yards.
Each wicket shall be Sin. in width and consist of
three stumus, with two bails upon the top. The
stumps shall be of equal and sufficient size to pre-
vent the ball from passing through, 27in. out of the
ground. The bails shall be each 4in. in length,
and when in position, on the top of the stumps,
shall not project more than ^in. above them. The
wickets shall not be changed during a match, unless
the ground between them become unfit for play,
and then only by consent of both sides.
7.	The bowling crease shall be in a line with the
stumps, 6ft. 8in. in length; the stumps in the
centre, with a return crease at each end, at right
angles behind the wicket.
8.	The popping crease shall be marked 4ft. from
the wicket, parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited
in length.
9.	The ground shall not be rolled, watered,
covered, mown or beaten during a match, except
before the commencement of each innings and of
each day’s play, when, unless the in-side object, the
ground shall be swept and rolled for not more than
ten minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman
from beating the ground with his bat, nor the bats-
man nor bowler from using sawdust in order to
obtain a proper foothold.
10.	The ball must be bowled; if thrown or
jerked, the umpire shall call “ No ball.”
iii.
11.	The bowler shall deliver the ball with one
foot on the ground behind the bowling crease, and
within the return crease, otherwise the umpire shall
call “ No-Ball.”
12.	If the bowler shall bowl the ball so high over
or so wide of the wicket that in the opinion of the
umpire it is not within reach of the striker, the
umpire shall call “ Wide ball.”
13.	The ball shall be bowled in overs of four
balls from each wicket alternately. When four balls
have been bowled, and the ball is finally settled in
the bowler’s or wicket-keeper’s hands, the umpire
shall call ’‘Over.” Neither a “No-ball” nor a
“Wide ball” shall be reckoned as one of the
“ Over.”
14.	The bowler may not change ends more than
twice in the same innings nor bowl more than two
overs in succession.
15.	The bowler may require the baUman at the
wicket from which he is bowling to stand ou that
side of it which he may direct.
16.	The striker may hit a “ no-ball,” and what-
ever runs result shall be added to his score; but
he shall not be out from a “ no-ba'l,” unless he be
run out or break laws 26, 27, 29, 30. All runs
made from a “no-ball,” otherwise than from the
bat, shall be scored “ no-balls,” and if no run bo
made oue run shall be added to that score. From
a “ wide ball ” as many runs as are run shall be
added to the score as “ wide balls,” and if no run
be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
iv.
17.	If tho ball, not having been called “ wide ”
or “no-ball,” pass the striker, without touching
his bat, or person, and any runs bo obtained, the
umpire shall call “ byebut if the ball touch
any part of tho striker’s person (hand excepted)
and any run be obtained, the umpire shall call
“leg-bye,” such runs to bo scored “byes” and
“ leg-byes” respectively.
18.	At the beginning of the match, and of each
innings, the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall
call “Play”; from that time no trial ball shall be
allowed to any bowler on the ground between the
wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out the
use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person
until the next batsman shall come in.
19.	A batsman shall be held to be “out of his
ground ” unless his bat in hand or some part of his
person be grounded within the line of the popping
crease.
20.	The wicket shall be held to bo “ down ”
when either of tho bails is struck off, or, if both
bails be off, when a stump is struck out of the
ground.
The striker is out—
21.	If the wicket be bowled down, even if the
ball first touch the striker’s bat or person—
‘ ‘ Bowled.”
22.	Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or
hand, but not the wrist, be held before it touch the
ground, although it be hugged to the body of tho
catcher:—“ Caught.”
v.
23.	Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be
not touched by the bat or hand, the striker bo out
of his ground, and the wicket be put down by the
wicket-keeper with the ball or with tho hand or
arm, with ball in hand:—“ Stumped,”
24.	Or, if with any part of his person ho stop
the ball, which in tho opinion of the umpire at
the bowler’s wicket shall have been pitched in a
straight line from it to tho striker’s wicket and
would have hit it:—“ Leg before Wicket.”
25.	Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his
wickot with his bat or any part of his person or
dress :—“Hit wicket.”
26.	Or, if under pretence of running, or other-
wise, either of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball
from being caught:—“ Obstructing tho field.”
27.	Or, if the ball be struck, or be stopped by
any part of his person, and he wilfully strike it
again, except it be done for the purpose of guarding
his wicket, which he may do with his bat, or any
part of his person, except his hands:—“Hit the
ball twice.”
Either batsman is out—
28.	If in running, or at any other time, while
the ball is in play, he bo out of his ground, and his
wicket be struck down by the ball after touching
any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, with ball in
hand, of any fieldsman Run out.”
29.	Or, if he touch with his hands or take up
the ball while in play, unless at the request of
the opposite side :—“ Handled the ball.”
VI.
30.	Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman:—
“ Obstructing the field.”
31.	If the batsmen have crossed each other, he
that runs for the wicket which is put down is out;
if they have not crossed, he that has loft tho wicket
which is put down is out.
32.	Tho striker being caught no run shall bo
scored. A batsman being run out, that run which
was being attempted shall not bo scored.
33.	A batsman being out from any cause, the
ball shall be “dead.”,
3-1. If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered,
any fieldsman may call “lost ball,” when tho ball
shall bo “dead;” six runs shall be added to the
score, but if more than six runs have been run
before “lost ball” has been called, as many runs
as have been rim shall be scored.
35.	After the ball shall have been finally settled
in tho wicket-keeper’s or bowler’s hand it shall be
* ‘ dead ; ” but when the bowler is r bout to deliver
the ball, if the batsman at his wicket be out of his
ground before actual delivery, the said bowler may
run him out; but if the bowler throw at that wicket
and any run result, it shall be scored “No-Ball.”
36.	A batsman shall not retire from his wicket
and return to it to complete his innings after
another has been in without the consent of the
opposite side.
37.	A substitute shall be allowed to field or run
between wickets for any pie yer who may during the
vii.
match be incapacitated from illness or injury, but
for no other reason, except with the consent of tho
opposite side.
38 In all cases where a substitute shall bo
allowed, the consent of tho opposite side shall be
obtained as to the person to act as substitute and
the place in the field which he shall take.
39.	In case any substitute shall be allowed to
run between wickets, the striker may be run out if
either he or his substitute be out of his ground. If
tho striker be out of his ground while the ball is
in play, that wicket which he has left may be put
down and the striker given out, although the other
batsman may have made good tho ground at that
end, and the striker and his substitute at the other
end.
40.	A batsman is liable to be out for any
infringement of tho laws by his substitute.
41.	Tho fieldsman may stop tho ball with any
part of his person, but if he wilfully stop it other-
wise the ball shall be “ dead,” and five runs added
to the score. Whatever runs may have been made
five only shall be added.
42.	The wicket-keeper shall stand behind the
wicket. If he shall take tho ball for the purpose
of stumping before it has passed tho wicket, or if
he shall incommode the striker by any noise, or
motion, or if any part of his person be over or before
tho wicket, the striker shall not be out, excepting
under laws 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30.
viii.
43.	The umpires are the sole judges of fair or
unfair play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather,
and the light for play; all disputes shall be
determined by them, and if they disagree the
actual state of things shall continue.
44.	They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange bound-
aries where necessary, and the allowances to be
made for them, and change ends after each side has
had one innings.
45.	They shall allow two minutes for each
striker' to come in, and ten minutes between each
innings. When they shall call “play,” the side
refusing to play shall lose the match.
46.	They shall not order a batsman out unless
appealed to by the other side.
47.	The umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be
appealed to before the other umpire in all cases
except in those of stumping, hit wicket, run out at
the striker’s wicket, or arising out of Law 42, but
in any case in which an umpire is unable to give
a decision he shall appeal to the other umpire,
whose decision shall be final.
48.	If the umpire at the bowler’s end be not
satisfied of the absolute fairness of the delivery of
any ball, he shall call “No ball.”
49.	The umpire shall take especial care to cal]
“No-ball” instantly upon delivery, “ Wide ball” as
soon as it shall have passed the striker.
50.	If either batsman run a short run, the
umpire shall call “ One short,” and the run shall
not be scored
ix.
51.	After the umpire has called “ Over,” the
ball is “ dead,” but an appeal may bo made as to
whether either batsman is out, such appeal, how-
ever, shall not be made after the delivery of the
next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
52.	No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
53,	No umpire shall be changed during a match
unless with the consent of both sides, except in
case of violation of Law 52, then either side may
dismiss him.
54.	The side which goes in second shall follow
their innings, if they have scored eighty runs less
than the opposite side.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.	The side which goes in second shall follow
their innings if they have scored GO runs less than
the opposite side.
2.	The match, when not played out, shall be
decided by the first innings.
3.	Prior to the commencement of a match it
may be agreed that the over consists of 5 or 6 balls.
X.
SINGLE WICKET.
The laws are, where they apply, the same as the
above, with the following alterations and additions:
1.	One wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with
a bowling stump opposite to it, at a distance of 22
yards. The bowling crease shall be in a line with
the bowling stump, and drawn according to Law 7.
2.	When there shall be less than five players
on a side, bounds shall be placed 22 yards each
in a line from the off and leg stump.
3.	The ball must be hit before the bounds to
entitle the striker to a run, which run cannot be
obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or
crease in a line with his bat, or some part of his
person, or go beyond them, and return to the
popping crease.
4.	When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his
feet must be on the ground behind the popping
crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “No hit,”
and no run shall be scored.
5.	When there shall bo less than five players
on a side neither byes, leg-byes, nor overthrows
shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught out
behind the wicket, nor stumped.
xi.
6,	The fieldsman must return tne ball bo that it
shall cross the ground between the wicket and the
bowling stump, or between the bowling stump and
the bounds ; the striker may run till the ball be so
returned.
7.	After the striker shall have made one run,
if he start again he must touch the bowling stump
or crease and turn before the ball cross the ground
to entitle him to another.
8.	The striker shall be entitled to three runs
for lost ball, and the same number for ball wilfully
stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with any part
of his person.
9.	When there shall be more than four players
on a side there shall be no bounds. All hits, byes,
leg-byes, and overthrows shall then be allowed.
10.	There shall be no restriction as to the ball
being bowled in overs, but no more than one minute
shall be allowed between each ball.

— CRICKET—
EXTRAORDINARY SCORES.—See Cricket in Australia.
LAWS OF COUNTY CRICKET.
Tho following were established as the laws of
county qualification, at a meeting held in the
Surrey County Pavilion, Kennington Oval, on June
9, 1870. Representatives present from Surrey,
Middlesex, Sussex, Kent, Gloucestershire, and
Nottinghamshire.
I. That no cricketer, whether amateur or profes-
sional, shall play for more than one county during
the same season.
II. Every cricketer born in one county and
residing in another shall be free to choose at the
commencement of each season for which of these
counties he will play, and shall, during that season,
play for that county only.
III. A cricketer shall be qualified to play for any
County in which he is residing and has resided for
tho previous two years ; or a cricketer may elect to
play for the county in which his family home is, so
long as it remains open to him ns an occasional
residence.
IV. That, should any question arise as to the
residential qualification, the same should be loft to
the decision of the committee of the Marylebone
Club.
V. That a copy of these rules be sent to the
Marylebone Club, with a request that they be
adopted by the club.
Any young aspiring cricketer may become great in the cricket-
field by using
Bartlett’s (Celebrated)
Repercussive Bats
Runs are made so easily with this
Bat that three figures are easily
reached, do not jar the hand, and
a good spiing in the handle makes
this Bat so pleasant to use.
Cricket Clubs and Schools will
effect a great saving by giving
us a call, and select from our im-
mense stock.
May be had of all Dealers in
Cricket Goods.
Manufactory :
7.1, WATERLOO ROAD
£*> AND
RAILWAY'"'^APPROACH, WATERLOO STATION
T TA T) REGISTERED STUMPS, Solid Brass Top and
b bottom, suitable for hard ground.
THE “WATERLOO.”
(Registered February 1883, No. 6,63d.)
This Bat is fully protected at the joint, where they usually first break
The joint is perfectly covered, so that it is impossible to give way.
They are better balanced, and much, better finished than any yet
offered to tho player.
LIST ON APPLICATION.