INDEX.
PAOB
Laws of Cricket ..........................1
Rules of County Cricket ..................13
How to Place Men in the Field—
I.—To a Slow Round-arm or “Lob ” Bowler,
Right-handed (Diagram) .. .. 15
II.—To a Medium Round-arm Bowler, Right-
handed (Diagram) ................16
HI.—To a Slow or Medium Round-arm Bowler,
Left-handed (Diagram) .. .. .. 1
IV.—To a Fast Round-arm Bowler, Right-
handed (Diagram) ................18
V.—To a Fast Round-arm Bowler, Left-
handed (Diagram) ................19
Hints to Young Players .................
Rules for Guidance of those Forming Clubs .. 84
List of Umpires ..........................37
FRANK BRYAN’S
Junior GRASSHOPPER
SPECIAL YOUTH'S SIZE.
Made exactly according to the dimensions and weight
adapted at a special meeting of the Principals of most
of the chief Schools on Wednesday, March 30th, 1892.
The materials and workmanship are in
every respect equal to the “GRASS-
HOPPER ” Balls, and cannot be sur-
passed.
To be had through all dealers, or direct from
FRANK BRYAN
38, Charterhouse Square,
LONDON, E.C.
Laws of Cricket.
As Revised by the Marylebone Cricket
Club, May 1890.
1. A match is played between two sides of
eleven players each, unless otherwise agreed to ;
each side has two innings, taken alternately,
except in the case provided for in Law 53. The
choice of innings shall bo decided by tossing.
2.	The score shall be reckoned by runs. A
run is scored—1st, So often as the batsmen after
a hit, or at any time while the ball is in play,
shall have crossed, and made good their ground
from eud to end. 2nd, For penalties under Laws
16, 34, 41, and allowances under 44. Any run
or runs so scored shall bo duly recorded by
scorers appointed for tho purpose. The side
which scores the greatest number of runs wins
the match. No match is won unless played out
or given up, except in tho case provided for in
Law 45.
3.	Before the commencement of the match
two umpires shall bo appointed, one for each end.
4.	The ball shall weigh not less than 5Aoz.,
nor more than 5$oz. It shall measure not less
thanOin. nor more than 9.fin. in circumference.
At the beginning of each innings either side
may demand a now ball.
5.	Tho bat shall not exceed If in. in the widest
part; it shall not be more than 3Sin. in length.
G. Tho wickets shall be pitched opposite and
parallel to each other, at a distance of 22 yards.
Each wicket shall bo 8in. in width and consist
of three slumps, with two bails upon the top.
Tho stumps shall bo of equal and sufficient size
to prevent tho ball from passing through, 27in.
out of the ground. Tho bails shall bo each din,
in length, and when in position, on the top of
tho stumps, shall not project more than fin. above
them. Tho wickets shall not bo changed during
a match, unless the ground botweon them become
unfit for play, and then only by consent of both
sides.
7.	The bowling crease shall bo in a line with
the stumps, Gft. 8in. in length ; tho stumps in the
centre, with a return crease at each end, at right
angles behind tho wicket.
8.	The popping crease shall be marked 4ft.
from tho wicket, parallel to it, and bo deemed
unlimited in length.
9.	The ground shall not be rolled, watered,
covered, mown or beaten during a match, except
before tho commencement of each innings and
of each day’s play, when, unless the in side
object, the ground shall bo swept and rolled for
not more than ten minutes. This shall not
prevent the batsman from beating the ground
with his bat, nor the batsman nor bowler from
using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foothold.
3
10.	The ball must be bowled ; if thrown or
jerked, the umpire shall call “ No ball J’
11.	The bowler shall deliver the ball with one
foot on the ground behind the bowling crease, and
within the return crease, otherwise the umpire
shall call “No Ball.”
12.	If the bowler shall bowl the ball so high
over or so wide of the wicket that in the opinion
of the umpire it is not within reach of the striker,
the umpire shall call “ Wide ball.”
13.	The ball shall bo bowled in overs of five
balls from each wicket alternately. When five
balls have been bowled, and the ball is finally
settled in the bowler’s or wicket-keeper’s hands,
the umpire shall call “Over.” Neither a
“No-ball”nor a “ Widoball” shall be reckoned
as one of the “ Over.”
14.	The bowler shall be allowed to change
ends as often as he pleases, provided only that
ho does not bowl two overs consecutively in
one innings.
15.	The bowler may require the batsman at
the wicket from which he is bowling to stand on
that side of it which ho may direct.
16.	The striker may hit a“ no-ball," and
whatever runs result shall be added to his score ;
but he shall not bo out from a “ no-ba’l,” unless
ho bo run out or break laws 26, 27, 29, 30. All
runs made from a “no-ball,” otherwise than
from the bat, shall be scored “ no-balls,’’and if no
run bo made ono run shall be added to that score.
4
From a “ wide ball ” as many runs as arc run
shall be added to the score as “ wide balls,” and
if no run be otherwise obtained one run shall be
so added.
17.	If the ball, not having been called “ wide ”
or “no-ball,” pass the striker, without touching
his bat, or person, and any runs be obtained, the
umpire shall call “ bye;” but if the ball touch any
part of the striker’s person (hand excepted) and
any run be obtained, the umpire shall call
“leg-bye,” such runs to be scored “ byes ” and
. ** leg-byes ” respectively.
18.	At the beginning of the match, and of
each innings, the umpire at the bowler’s wicket
shall call “Play ”; from that time no trial ball
shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground
between the wickets, and when one of the
batsmen is out the use of the bat shall not be
allowed to any person until the next batsman
shall come in.
19.	A batsman shall be held to bo “out of
his ground ” unless his bat in hand or some part
of his person bo grounded within the line of the
popping crease.
20.	The wicket shall be held to bo “ down ”
when either of the bails is struck off, or, if both
bails bo off, when a stump is struck out of the
ground.
The striker is out—
21.	If the wicket be bowled down, even if the
ball first touch the striker’s bat or person—
“ Bowled.”
I
5
22.	Or, if tho ball, from a stroke of the bat or
hand, but not tho wrist, be held before it touch
tho ground, although it be hugged to tho body
of the catcher:—“Caught.”
23.	Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it
bo not touched by the bat or hand, tho striker
bo out of his ground, and tho wicket be put
down by tho wicket-keeper with tho ball or with
hand or arm, with ball in hand :—“Stumped.”
24.	Or, if with any part of his person ho stop
tho ball, which in tho opinion of the umpire at
the bowler’s wicket shall have been pitched in a
straight lino from it to the striker’s wicketand
would have hit it:—“Leg before Wicket.”
25.	Or, if in playing at tho ball he hit down
his wicket with bis bat or any part of his person
or dress:—“ Hit wicket.”
2G. Or, if under pretence of running, or
otherwise, either of the batsmen wilfully prevent a
ball from being caught:—“Obstructing the field.”
27.	Or, if the ball be struck, or be stopped by
any part of his person, and ho wilfully strike it
again, except it be done for tho purpose of guard-
ing his wicket, which ho may do with his bat,
or any part of his person, except his hands :—
“ Hit the ball twice. ’’
Either batsman is out—
28.	If in running, or at any other time, while
tho ball is in play, he bo out of his ground, and
G
his wicket bo struck down by the hall after
touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm,
with ball in hand, of any fieldsman :—“Run out.”
29.	Or, if ho touch with his hands or tako up
the ball while in play, unless at the request of
the opposite side:—“ Handled the ball.”
30.	Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fields-
man :—“ Obstructing the field.”
31.	If the batsmen have crossed each other,
ho that runs for the wicket which is put down is
out; if they have not crossed, he that has loft
tho wicket which is put down is out.
32.	Tho striker being daught no run shall be
scored. A batsman being run out, that run
which was being attempted shall not be scored.
33.	A batsman being out from any cause,
the ball shall be “ dead.”
31. If a ball in play cannot bo found or
recovered, any fieldsman may call “lost ball,”
when tho ball shall be “ dead ; ’’ six runs shall be
added to the score, but if more than six runs
have been run before “ lost ball ” has been called,
as many runs as have been run shall bo scored.
35. After the ball shall have been finally
settled in the wicket-keeper’s or bowler’s hand it
shall be “ dead; ” but when the bowler is about to
deliver the ball, if the batsman at his wicket bo
out of bis ground before actual delivery, the said
bowler may run him out; but if the bowler throw
7
at that wicket and any run result, it shall bo
scored “No-Ball.”
3G. A batsman shall not retire from his
wicket and return to it to complete his innings
after another has been in without the consent of
the opposite side.
37.	A substitute shall be allowed to field or
run between wickets for any player who may
during the match be incapacitated from illness
or injury, but for no other reason, except with
the consent of the opposite side.
38.	In all cases where a substitute shall bo
allowed, the consent of the opposite side shall
be obtained as to the person to act as substitute
and the place in the field which ho shall take.
39.	In case any substitute shall be allowed
to run between wickets, tho striker may be run
out if either he or his substitute be out of his
ground. If the striker be out of his ground
while the ball is in play, that wicket which he
has left may be put down and the striker given
out, although the other batsman may have made
good the ground at that end, and tho striker and
his substitute at the other end.
40.	A batsman is liable to bo out for any
infringement of tho laws by his substitute.
41.	Tho fieldsman may stop the ball with nny
part of his person, but if he wilfully stop it
otherwise tho ball shall be “ dead,” and five
runs added to tho score. Whatever runs may
have been made five only shall bo added.
8
42.	Tho wicket-keeper shall stand behind
the wicket. If ho shall take the ball for the
purpose of stumping before it has passed the
wicket, or if ho shall incommode the striker by
any noise, or motion, or if any part of his person
be over or before the wicket, tho striker shall
not bo out, excepting under laws 26, 27, 28, 29,
and 30.
43.	Tho umpires arc tho solo judges of fair
or unfair play, of tho fitness of tho ground, the
weather, and tho light for play ; all disputes
shall be determined by them, and if they dis-
agree tho actual state of things shall continue.
44.	They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange
boundaries where necessary, and tho allowances
to bo made for them, and change ends after
each side has had one innings.
45.	They shall allow two minutes for each
striker to come in, and ten minutes between
each innings. When they shall call “ play,”
tho side refusing to play shall lose the match.
46.	They shall not order a batsman out
unless appealed to by the other side,
47.	Tho umpire at the bowler’s wicket
shall bo appealed to before the other umpire in
all cases except in those of stumping, hit
wicket, run out at tho striker’s wicket, or arising
out of Law 42, but in any case in which an
umpire is unable to give a decision he shall
appeal to the other umpire, whose decision
shall be final.
9
48.—If the umpire at the bowler’s end bo not
satisfied of the absolute fairness of the delivery
of any ball, he shall call “ No ball.”
485. The umpire shall take especial care to
call “ No-ball” instantly upon delivery, “ Wide
ball ” as soon as it shall have passed the striker.
49.	If either batsman run a short run, the
umpire shall call “ Ono short,” and the run shall
not bo scored
50.	After the umpire has called “ Over,” the
ball is “ dead,” but an appeal may Lo made as
to whether either batsman is out, such appeal,
however, shall not be made after the delivery of
the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
51.	No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.	No umpire shall be changed during a
match unless with the consent of both sides,
except in case of violation of Law 51, then either
side may dismiss him.
53.	The side which goes in second shall follow
their innings, if they have scored eighty runs less
than the opposite side.
54.	On the last day of a match, or if a one-
day match, at any time, the in-side shall be
empowered to declare th? innings at an end.
10
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.	Tho side which goes in second shall follow
their innings if they have scored GO runs less
than tho opposite side.
2.	Tho match, unless played out, shall be
decided by the first innings.
3.	Prior to the commencement of a match it
may bo agreed that tho over consists of 5 or G balls.
SINGLE WICKET.
Tho laws are, where they apply, the same as
the above, with the following alterations and
additions :
1.	One wicket shall be pitched, as in Law G,
with a bowling stump opposite to it, at a distance
of 22 yards. The bowling crease shall be in a
line with the bowling stump, and drawn according
to Law 7.
2.	When there shall be loss than five players
on a side, bounds shall be placed 22 yards each
in a line from the off and leg stump.
3.	Tho ball must bo hit before the bounds to
entitle the striker to a run, which run cannot be
obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or
crease in a line with his bat, or some part of bis
person, or go beyond them, and return to the
popping crease.
11
4.	When the striker shall hit the ball, one of
his feet must bo on the ground behind the pop-
ping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call
“No hit,” and no run shall bo scored.
5.	When there shall bo less than five players
on a side neither byes, leg-byes, nor overthrows
shall be allowed, nor shall the striker bo caught
out behind the wicket, nor stumped.
6.	The fieldsman must return the ball so that
it shall cross the ground between the wicket and
the bowling stump, or between the bowling
stump and the bounds ; the striker may run till
the ball bo so returned.
7.	After the striker shall have made ono run,
if he start again ho must touch the bowling
stump or crease and turn before the ball cross
the ground to entitle him to another.
8.	The striker shall be entitled to three runs
for lost ball, and the same number for ball wil-
fully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with
any part of his person.
9.	When there shall be more than four players
on a side there shall be no bounds. All hits,
byes, leg-byes, and overthrows shall then be
allowed.
10.	There shall be no restriction as to the ball
being bowled in overs, but no more than one
minute shall be allowed between each ball.
RULES OF COUNTY CRICKET.
Tug following were established as the laws of
county qualification, at a meeting held in the
Surrey County Pavilion, Kennington Oval, on
June 9, 1873. Representatives present from
Surrey, Middlesex, Sussex, Kent, Gloucester-
shire, Yorkshire, and Nottinghamshire.
I. That no cricketer, whether amateur or
professional, shall play for more than one county
during the same season.
H. Every cricketer bom in one county and
residing in another shall be free to choose at the
commencement of each season for which of those
counties he will play, and shall, during that
season, play for that county only.
III.	A cricketer shall be qualified to play for
any County in which ho is residing and has re-
sided for the previous two years ; or a cricketer
may elect to play for the county in which his
family home is, so long as it remains open to him
as an occasional residence.
IV.	That, should any question arise as to
the residential qualification, the same should be
left to the decision of the Committee of the
Marylobono Club.
V.	That a copy of these rules bo sent to the
Marylebone Club, with a request that they bo
adopted by the club.