THE
LBWS OF CRICKET.
1896.
AS REVISED BY THE
MARYLEBONE CRICKET CLUB.
PUBLISHED AT TH!
‘'©F^IO^ET PFJE8S,
25, TEMPLE CHAMBERS, LONDON, E.C.
INDEX.
PAGE
Laws of Cricket .. .. .. . . ’ .. .. 5
Rules of County Cricket .. .. 12
How to Place Men in the Field—
I.—To a Slow Round-arm or “Lob” Bowler,
Right-handed (Diagram) .. 13
II.—To a Medium Round-arm Bowler, Right-handed
(Diagram) .. .. ■ ■ .. 14
HI.—To a Slow or Medium Round-arm Bowler, Left-
handed (Diagram) ...................... 15
IV.—To a Fast Round-arm Bowler, Right-handed
(Diagram) .. .. •. • • •. 16
V.—To a Fast Round-arm Bowler, Left-handed
(Diagram) .. .. .. •. • • 17
Hints to Young Players .. .. • • 19
Rules for Guidance of those Forming Clubs .. 26
Umpires .. .. .. • • • • • • 28
I
IsacoA of (srieftef.
As Revised by the Marylebone Cricket Club.
1.—A match is played between two sides of elevon players
each, unless otherwise agreed to ; each side has two innings,
taken alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53-
The choice of innings shall bo decided by tossing.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored—
1st, So often as the batsmen after a hit, or at any time while
the ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made good their
ground from end to end ; 2nd, For penalties under Laws 16,
34,	41, and allowances under 44. Any run or runs so scored
shall be duly recorded by scorers appointed for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the
match. No match is won unless played out or given up, except
in the case provided for in Law 45.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two umpires shall
be appointed, one for each end.
4.—The ball shall weigh not less than 5Joz. nor more than
o$oz. It shall measure not less than 9in. nor more than 9|in.
in circumference. At the beginning of each innings either side
may demand a new ball.
5.—The bat shall not exceed 4:}in. in the widest part; it shall
not be more than 38in. in length.
6.—The wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each
other, at a distance of 22 yards. Each wicket shall be 8in. in
width, and consist of three stumps, with two bails upon the top.
The stumps shall be of equal and sufficient size to prevent the ball
from passing through, 27in. out of the ground. The bails shall
be each 4in. in length, and when in position, on the top of the
stumps, shall not project more than gin. above them. The
wickets shall not be changed during the match, unless the
ground between them becomes unfit for play, and theu only by
consent of both sides.
6
7.—The bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps,
6ft. 8in. in length; the stumps in the centre, with a return
crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
8.—The popping crease shall be marked 4ft. from the wicket,
parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.
9.—The ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown
or beaten during a match, except before the commencement of
each innings and of each day’s play, when, unless the in-side
object, the ground shall be swept and rolled for not more than
ten minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman from beating
the ground with his bat, nor the batsman nor bowler from using
sawdust in order to obtain a proper foothold.
10.—The ball must be bowled ; if thrown or jerked, the
umpire shall call “No ball.”
11.—The bowler shall deliver the ball with one foot on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within the return crease,
otherwise the umpire shall call “ No ball.”
12.—If the bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so wide
of the wicket that in the opinion of the umpire it is not within
reach of the striker, the umpire shall call “ Wide ball.”
13,—The ball shall be bowled in overs of five balls from each
wicket alternately. When five balls have been bowled, and the
ball is finally settled in the bowler’s or wicket-keeper’s hands,
the umpire shall call “ Over.” Neither a “no-ball” nor a
“ wide-ball” shall be reckoned as one of the “ over.”
14-—The bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as
he pleases, provided only that he does not bowl two overs con-
secutively in one innings.
15.—The bowler may require the batsman at the wicket from
which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may
direct.
16.—The striker may hit a “ no-ball,” and whatever runs
result shall be added to his score ; but he shall not be out from
a “no-ball,” unless he be run out or break laws 26, 27, 29, 30.
All runs made from a “ no-ball,” otherwise than from the bat,
shall be scored “ no-balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall
be added to that score. From a “ wide-ball ” as many runs as
are run shall be added to the score as “ wide balls,” and if no
runs be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
17.—If the ball, not having been called “ wide ” or “ no-ball,”
7
pass the striker, without touchin" his bat, or person, and any
rruns be obtained, the umpire shall call “ Byo” ; but if the ball
ttouch any part of the striker’s person (hand excepted) and any
nrun be obtained, the umpire shall call “ Leg-bye,” such runs to
bbe scored “byes ” and “ leg-byes ” respectively.
18.—At the begining of the match, and of each innings, the
uumpire at the bowler’s wicket shall call “ Play from that time
uno trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground be-
titween the wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out the use
oof the bat shall not be allowed to any person until the next
Ubatsman shall come in.
19.—A batsman shall be held to be “ out of bis ground ” un-
llesshis bat in hand or some part of his person be grounded
within the line of the popping crease.
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “ down ” when either of
tthe bails is struck off, or, if both bails be off, when the stump
iis struck out of the ground.
The striker is out—
21.—If the wicket bo bowled down, even if the ball first
ttouch the striker’s bat or person :—“ Bowled.”
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not
tthe wrist, be held before it touch the ground, although it be
khugged to the body of the catcher:— “ Caught.”
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched
kby the bat or band, the striker be out of his ground, and the
vwicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball or with
Ehand or arm, with ball in hand :—“ Stumped.”
24.—Or, if with any part of his person ho stop the ball, which
iin the opinion of the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall have
kbeen pitched in a straight lino from it to tho striker’s wicket
aand would have hit it:—“ Leg before wicket.”
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with
this bat or any part of his person or dress :—“ Hit wicket.”
2G.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either of
tthe batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught:—
“‘Obstructing the field.”
27—Or, if the ball be struck, or bo stopped by any part ot
khis person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done
ffor the purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with
8
his but, or any part of his person, except bis hands:—“Hit
the ball twice.”
Either batsman is out—
28.—If in running, or at any other time, while the ball is in
play, he be out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down
by the ball after touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm,
with ball in hand, of any fieldsman :—“ Run out.”
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball while
in play, unless at the request of the opposite side :—“ Handled
the ball.”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman :—“ Obstructing
the field.”
31.—If the batsmeu have crossed each other, he that runs for
the wicket which is put down is out; if they have not crossed,
he that has left the wicket which is put down is out.
32.—The striker being caught, no run shall be scored. A
batsman being run out, that run which was being attempted
shall not be scored.
33.—A batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be
“ dead.”
34.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any
fieldsman may call “lost ball,” when the ball shall be “ dead”;
six runs shall be added to the score, but if more than six runs
have been run before “lost ball ” has been called, as many runs
■*s have been run shall be scored.
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in the
wicket-keeper’s or bowler’s hand it shall be “ dead ” ; but when
the bowler is about to deliver the ball, if the batsman at his
wicket be out of his ground before actual delivery, the said
bowler may run him out; but if the bowler throw at that
wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “ no-ball.”
36.—A batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return
to it to complete his innings after another has been in without
the consent of the opposite side.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between
wickets for any player who may during the match be incapaci-
tated from illness or injury, but for no other reason, except
with the consent of the opposite side.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the
consent of the opposite side shall be obtained as to the person
to act as substitute and the place in the field which he shall
take.
39.—In case any substitute shall be allowed to run between
wickets, the striker maybe run out if either he or his substitute
be out of his ground. If the striker be out of his ground while
the ball is in play, that wicket which he has left may be put
down and the striker given out, although the other batsman
may have made good the ground at that end, and the striker
and bis substitute at the other end.
40.—A batsman is liable to be out for any infringement of
the laws by his substitute.
41.—The fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his
person, but if he wilfully stop ic otherwise the ball shall be
“ dead,” and five runs added to the score. Whatever runs may
have been made five only shall be added.
42.—The wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket. If
he shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping before it has
passed the wicket, or if he shall incommode the striker by any
noise, or motion, or if any part of his person be over or before the
wicket, the striker shall not be out, excepting under laws 26,
27, 28, 29, and 30.
43.—The umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play,
of the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light for play;
all disputes shall be determined by them, and if they disagree
the actual state of things shall continue.
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where
necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and change
ends after each side has had one innings.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each striker to come
in, and ten minutes between each innings. When they shall
call “ Play,” the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
4G.— They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to
by the other side.
47.—The umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be appealed to
before the other umpire in all cases except in those of stumping,
hit wicket, run out at the striker’s wicket, or arising out of
Law 42, but in any case in which an umpire is unable to give
a decision he shall appeal to the other umpire, whose decision
shall be final.
10
48.—If the umpire at the bowler’s end be not satisfied of the
absolute fairness of the delivery of any ball, he shall call “ No
ball.”
485. The umpire shall take especial care to call “ No ball ”
instantly upon delivery, “ Wide ball ” as soon as it shall have
passed the striker.
49.—If either batsman run a short run, the umpire shall call
<* One short,” and the run shall not be scored.
50.—After the umpire has called “ Over,” the ball is “ dead,”
but an appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is
out; such appeal, however, shall not be made after the delivery
of the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
51.—No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No umpire shall be changed during a match unless with
the consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law
51,then either side may dismiss him.
53.—The side which goes in second shall follow their innings,
if they have scored 120 runs less than the opposite side in a three-
days match, or 80 runs in a two-days match.
54.—On the last day of a match, or if a one-day match, at
any time, the in-side shall be empowered to declare the innings
at an end.
ONE-DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which goes in second shall follow their innings
if they have scored CO runs less than the opposite side.
2.—The match, unless played out, shall be decided by the
first innings.
3.—-Prior to the commencement of a match it may be agreed
that the over consists of 5 or G balls.
SINGLE WICKET.
The laws are, where they apply, the same as the above, with the
following alterations and additions:—
1.—One wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a bowlin
11
sstump opposite to it, at a distance of 22 yards. The bowling
ocrease shall be in a lino with the bowling stump, and drawn ac-
ocording to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five players on a side,
’bounds shall be placed 22 yards each in aline from the off and
rieg stump.
3.—The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the
• striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch
the bowling stump or crease in a line with his bat, or some part
■ of his person, or go beyond thorn, and return to the popping
• crease.
4.—When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must
be on the ground behind the popping crease, otherwise the
umpire shall call “ No hit,” and no run shall be scored.
5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side,
neither byes, leg-byes, nor overthrows shall be allowed, nor
shall the striker be caught out behind the wicket, nor stumped.
6.—The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross
the ground between the wicket and the bowling stump, or
between the bowling stump and the bounds; the striker may
run till the ball be so returned.
7.—After the striker shall have made one run, if he start
again he must touch the bowling stump or crease and turn
before the ball cross the ground to entitle him to another.
8.—The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball,
and the same number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman
otherwise than with any part of his person.
9,—When there shall be more than four players on a side
there shall be no bounds. All bits, byes, leg-byes, and over-
throws shall then be allowed.
10.—There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled
in overs, but no more than one minute shall be allowed between
each ball.
12
RULES OF COUNTY CRICKET.
The following were established as the laws of county qualifi-
cation, at a meeting held in the Surrey County Pavilion,
Kennington Oval, on June 9, 1873. Representatives present
from Surrey, Middlesex Sussex, Kent, Gloucestershire, York-
shire, and Nottinghamshire.
I.—That no cricketer, whether amateur or professional, shall
play for more than one county during the same season.
II.—Every cricketer born in one county and residing in
another shall be free to choose at the commencement of each
season for which of those counties he will play, and shall,
during that season, play for that county only.
III.—A cricketer shall be qualified to play for any county in
which he is residing and has resided for the previous two years;
or a cricketer may elect to play for the county in which his
family home is, so long as it remains open to him as an
occasional residence.
IV.—That, should any question arise as to the residential
qualification, the same should be left to the decision of the
Committee of the Marylebone Club.
V.—That a copy of these rules be sent to the Marylebone
Club, with a request that they be adopted by the club.