
?/A-
THE
Laws of Cricket,
AS AMENDED BY THE
MARYLEBONE CRICKET CLUB
TOGETHER WITH
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES AS TO FITNESS
OF GROUND, LIGHT, Etc.
HOW TO MAKE A GOOD PITCH.
WRIGHT & Co.,
All England Athletic Publishing Co.,
2, Amen Corner, Paternoster Row, E.C.

LAWS OF CRICKET.
As Revised by the Marylebonc Cricket Club, May, 1900.
THE GAME
1.—A mutch is played between two sides of 11 players
reach, unless otherwise agreed to. Each side has two innings,
(Taken alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53.
TPhe choice of innings shall be decided by tossing.
RUNS.
2.—’.I’he score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:—
11.	So often as the batsman after a hit, or at any time while
tthe ball is in play, shall have crossed and made good their
gground from end to end. 2.—For penalties under Laws 16, 34,
411, and allowances under 41. Any run or runs so scored shall
Lbe duly recorded by scorers appointed for the purpose. The
saido which scores the greatest number of runs wins the match.
TNo match is won unless played out or given up, except in the
cease provided for in Law 45.
APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two umpires
sshall bo appointed : one for each end.
THE BALL.
1.—The ball shall weigh not less than live ounces and a
Hialf, nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall
rmeasuro not less than nine inches, nor more than nine inches
aand one quarter in circumference. At the beginning of each
iinnings either side may demand a new ball.
THE BAT.
5.—The bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter
iin the widest part; it shall not be more than 3S inches in
llength.
THE WICKETS.
G.—The wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to
teach other at a distance of 22 yards. Each wicket shall bo
eeight inches in width, and consist of three stumps, with two
tbails upon tho top. The Stumps shall bo of equal and
10
sufficient size to prevent the bull pussing through, 27 inches
out of tho ground. The bails shall bo each lour inches in
length, and, when in position on top of the stumps, shall not
project more than half-an-inch above them. The wickets
shall not bo changed during the match unless the ground
between them become unfit for play, and then only by consent
of both sides.
THE BOWLING CREASE.
7.—The bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps
6 feet 8 inches in length, the stumps in the centre, with a
return crease at each end, at right angles behind tho wicket.
THE POPPING CREASE.
8. Thu popping crease shall be marked four feet from
the wicket, parallel to it, and deemed unlimited in length.
THE GROUND.
9 —The ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered
mown, or beaten during a match except before the commence-
ment of each innings and of each day’s play, when unless
the in-side object,the ground shall be swept and rolled for not
more than ten minutes. This shall not prevent the butsmau
from beating the ground with his bat, nir the batsman nor
bowler from using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foot-
hold.
THE BOWLER. .NO BALL.
10.—The ball must be bowled ; if thrown or jerked either
umpire shall call •• no bull.”
11.—The bowler shall deliver the ball with one foot on the
ground behind the bowling crease, and within tho return
crease, otherwise tho umpire shall call ‘*no ball.”
WIDE BALL.
12.—Jf the bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so
wide of the wicket, that in the opinion of the umpire it is
not within reach of the striker the umpire shall cal wide
ball.”
THE OVER.
13.—The ball shall be bowled iu overs of six balls from
each wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled,
and the ball is finally settled in the bowler sor wicket-keeper’s
hands, the umpire shall call “ over.” Neither a " no ball ” nor
a “ wide ball ” shall be reckoned us one of the over.
11
11.—The bowler may change ends as often as ho pleases,
provided that he shall not bow) two overs in success on in the
Name innings.
15.—Tbo bowler may require the batsman at the wicket
from which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he
may direct.
SCORING OFF NO BALLS AND WIDE PALLS,
l(i—’Phe striker may hit a “no ball,” and whatever runs
result shall be added to his score; but he shall not be out
from a “no ball ” unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27,
29 and 30. AU runs made from a “ no ball.” otherwise than
from the bat. shall be scored “ no balls,” and. if no run be
made, one run shall be added to that score. From a “wide
ball ” as many runs as are run shall be added to that score
us “wide balls.”and if no runs be otherwise obtained,one run
shall be so added.
BYE.
17.—If the bull, not having been called “wide ” or "no-ball,”
pass the striker without touching his bat or persou, and any
runs be obtained, the umpire shall call “bye;” but if the
ball touch any part of the striker’s person (hand excop’ed)
and any run be obtained, the umpireshnll call “leg-bye;” such
runs to be scored ••byes” and “leg-byes ” respectively.
PLAT.
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings,
the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall call “playfrom that
time ik) trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on theground
between the wickets, and, when one of the batsmen is out the
use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person until the
next batsman shall come in.
DEFINITIONS.
19.—A batsman shall be held to be “ out of his ground ”
unless his bat in hand or some part of his person be grounded
within the line of the popping crease.
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “down ” when either
of the bails is struck off or, if both bails be off, when a stump
is struck out of the ground.
THE STRIKER.
21.—The striker is out if the wicket be bowled down,
even if the ball first touch the strikers bat or person:
“ Bowled.”
12
22—Or, if a ball, from a stroke of the but or hand, but
not the wrist bo held before it touch the ground, although it
bn hugged to the body of the catcher :—“ Caught.”
23.—Or. if in playing at the ball, provided it bo not
touched by the bat or hand the striker be out of his ground,
and the wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball
or with the hand or arm, with ball in hand :—“ Stumped.”
21.—Or. if with any part of his person he stop the ball,
which in the opinion of the umpire at the bowler's wicket
shall have been pitched in a straight line from it to the
striker's wicket and would have hit it:—“ Leg before wicket.”
25 —Or, if in playing at the ball bo hit down his wicket
with his bat or any part of his person or dress :—•* Hit wicket.”
26—Or. if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either
of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught :—
•‘Obstructing the field."
27.—Or. if the bnll be struck or be stopped by any part of
his person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done
for the purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with
his ba* or any part of his person, except his hands:—“Hit
the ball twice.”
THE BATSMEN.
28.—Either batsman is out if in running, or nt any other
time, while the ball is in play, he be out of his ground, and
his wicket be struck down by the ball after touching any
fieldsman, or by the hand or arm (with ball in hand) of any
fieldsman : —“ llun out.”
29—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of the opposite side :—
“ Handled the ball.”
30.—Or if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman :—Obstruct-
ing the field.’
31.	If the batsman have crossed each other, he that runs
for the wicket which is put down is out ; if they have not
crossed, he that has left the wicket which is put dowu is out.
32.—The striker being caught no run shall be scored. A
batsman being run out, that ruu which was being attempted
shall not be scored.
33.—A batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall
be “ dead.”
LOST BALL.
31.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any
13
fieldsman may call “ lost- ball." when the ball shall be “dead;”
six runs shall bn added to the score ; but if more than six runs
have been run before “ lo*t ball ' has been called us many runs
as have been run shall be scored.
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in tho
wicket keeper’s or bowler's hand, it shall be ‘ dead;" but
when the bowler is about to deliver the ball if the batsman
at his wicket be out of his ground before actual delivery, the
said bowler may run him out; but if the bo »ler throw at the
wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “ no ball.”
3fi.—A batsman shall not retire from his wicket and
return to it to complete his innings aft»ir another has been in
without the consent oi the opposite side.
SUBSTITUTE.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between
wickets for any player who may. during tho match be
incapacitated from illness or injur*/, but for no other reason
except with the consent of the opposite side.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the
consent of the opposite side shall he obtained as to a
person to act us a substitute, and the place in the field which
he shall take.
39.— In case any substitute shall be allowed to run
between wickets, the striker may be run out if either lie or
his substitute be out of his ground. If the striker be out of
his ground while the ball is in play. that wicket which
ho has left may be put down and tho striker giv-n oui. although
the other batsman may have made good the ground at the
end, and the striker and his substitute at the other end.
40.—A batsman is liable to be put out for any infringe
mont of the laws by his substitute.
THE FIELDSMAN.
41.—The fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his
person, but if ho wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be
“ dead ’’ and five runs added to the scor.?; whatever runs may
have been made, five only shall be added.
WICKET-KEKPKK.
42.—The wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket.
If ho shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping before it
has passed tho wicket, or if he sha'l incommode 'lv s riker
by any noise, or motion, or if any part of his person bo over
14
or before the wicket, the stril er shall not be out. excepting
under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
DUTIES OF UMPIRES.
•13.—The umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair
play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light
for play ; all disputes shall be determined by them, and if
they disagree, the actual state of things shall continue.
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries
where necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and
change ends after each side has had one innings.
•15.—They shall allow two minutes for each striker to
come in, and ten minutes between each innings. When they
call “ play ” the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed
to by the other side.
47.—The umpire at the bowler's wicket shall be appealed
to before the other umpire in all cases except in those of
stumping, hit wicket, run out at the striker’s wicket, or
arising out of Law 42. but in any case in which an umpire is
unable to give a decision he shall appeal to the other umpire,
whose decision shall be final.
48/7.—If either umpire be not satisfied of the absolute
fairness of the delivery of any ball, he shall call ‘ no ball.”
48ft.—The umpire shall take special care to call “ no ball ”
instantly upon delivery ; “ wide ball ’’ as soon as it shall have
passed the striker.
49.—If either batsman run a short run the umpire shall
call “ one short,’’ and the run shall not be scored.
50.—After the umpire has called “over’’ the ball is
“dead” but an appeal may be made as to whether either
batsman is out; such appeal however, shall not be made after
the delivery of the next ball, nor after any cessation of play.
51.—No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No umpire shall be changed during a match unless
with the consent of both sides, except in case of violation o
Law 51, when either side may dismiss him.
FOLLOWING INNINGS
53.—The side which goes in second shall follow their
innings if they have scored 150 runs less than the opposite
side.
15
o 1.—Ou the last day of a match, or if a one day match at
any time, the in-side shall be empowered to declare the
linings at an end.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1-—The side which goes in second shall follow their
innings if they have scored 75 runs less than the opposite
side.
-•—The match, unless played out shall be decided by the
first innings.
3.—Prior to the commencement of a match it may be
agreed that the over consist of live or six bulls.
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES.
These instructions, drawn up in 18.12 by the Committee
of the M.C.C., are intended as an appendix to the Laws of the
game.
FITNESS OF THE GROUND.
.Law 43.—At the commencement of a match the umpires
may be appealed to by either side as to the fitness of tb
ground for play.
Should they not agree play will not commence until the
are agreed.
Incase of interruption from ruin, as soon as the rain has
ceased the umpires shall immediately, without fm ther instruc-
tion, inspect the wicket, unaccompanied by any of the players,
and decide upon its fitness. Should it prove unfit they shall
continue to inspect ai at intervals, until they decide that it is
lit for play, when they shall cull upon the players to resume
the game.
The ground is unfit for play when water stands on the
surface, or when it is so wet. muddy or slippery as to deprive
the bowlers of a reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the
power of free movement.
The umpires are not to be biassed by the opinions of either
side, still less arc they to allow themselves to be influenced by
the impatience of the spectators for a resumption of theg uno,
and are not to be induced by the public i> Ure>t in a particular
match to d •elate the ground fit f<?r play, unless they would
consider that ground fit under any circumstances.
Fitness of Light for P;.ay.
The umpir -s may decide, on ap >■ al, that there is not
sufficient light for play Should the light improve before the
16
time for drawing stumps, they shall, without waiting for
nstructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
Law 47.—An umpire is only justified in appealing to the
other umpire when he is unable to decide, owing to his having
been prevented from seeing the occurrence upon which the
appeal is based, lie is not to appeal to the other umpire in
cases on which he could give a decision, merely because he is
unwilling to give that decision. If he be in any doubt, the
principle laid down in Law 43, “ That the existing state of
things shall continue,” shall be followed, and. inconsequence,
the decision should be in favour of the batsman.
Law 4^.—The special attention of umpires is called to
this law, which -directs them to call “ no ball ” unless abso-
lutely satisfied of the fairness of the delivery.
Umpires should not allow themselves to be unduly
influenced by appeals from such of the field who were not in a
position to form a judgment on the point appealed upon, or by
tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on appealing for a catch
at the wicket, without waiting for the decision. Umpires,
being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, should remember
that such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accord-
ance with the spirit in which cricket should be played.
THE LAWS OF SINGLE WICKET.
The Laws arc. where they apply, the same as those of double wicki
with the following alterations and additions—
1.—One wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with &
bowling stump opposite to it. at a distance of 22 yards. The
bowling crease shall be in line with the bowling stump, and
drawn according to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five players on a side..
bounds shall bo placed 22 yards each in a line from the off and
leg stump.
3.—The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the
striker to a run, which run cannot bo obtained unless he
touch the bowling stump or crease in a line with his bat, or
some part of his person, or go beyond them, and return to ihe
popping crease.
4.—When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet
must be on the ground, behind the popping crease, otherwise
the umpire shall call “ no hit.” and no run shall be scored.
.5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side.
17
neither bves. log-byes, nor overthrows shall be allowed, nor
shall the striker be caught out bjhin 1 the wicket, nor Lumped.
G.—The rieldsni iti aiu« r turn the ball ho that it shall
cross the ground between the wicket and the bowling stump,
or b -tw ph the b .wling n ' •1 ’he bounds. The striker
may run till the ball be so returned.
7 —After the s-riKer bhall have made one run, if he starts
again he must touch the iu«ii>io ntump «»r crease, and turn
before the ball cro-*s the ground to entitle him to another.
8.—The striker shall b*’ entitled to three runs for lost
ball, and the same number for ball wilfully stopped by a
field-man otherwise than with any part of his person.
y. When there shall be more chan four players on a
side there shall bo no bounds All hus, byes, Kg byes, and
overthrows shall then be allowed.
10.—Then- shall be no restriction as to the ball heir
bowled in <>v »re. but no in ire than one minute shall
allowed between each ball.
For Pavilion and Club Rooms.— I ho Revised Laws
Cricket on Sheets, suitable for hanging up, printed in large,
•clear type. Price 3d. each.
ORDER
OF
GOING
IN
CARDS.
“ Best of their kind.”—
Sports and Play.
Each Card suitable for
two innings.
6d. PER DOZEN.
WRIGHT & CO.,
2, Amen Corner, E.C.