3rd EDITION.
WITH
Decisions &
Interpretations authorized
by the M.C.C.
Rules of County Cricket.
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES.
4?
COUMTY QUALIFICATIONS
-b
Minor County Rules.
AND
Advisory County Cricket Committee Rules


By Post Fourpence.
&

LONDON :
Printed by The Marylebone Cricket Club.
1906.
•Ji]
•r*
All Hijlets Reserved,
J, J. -V X X X X
er j er_> er-> erj <-r> erj er_> eru er. • er.j
v


Rules of County Cricket 8c Instructions to Umpires.
WITH
Decisions and Interpretations authorized by the M.C.C.
Sco
No
Wic
PREFACE.
The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties which
are known to exist, although they are not always apparent.
Hundreds of cases are sent to the M.C.C. for decision every
year. It is from this source that the chief difficulties have
become manifest. Saturday and League matches are cspecialty
productive of disputes and it is hoped that those who read
these notes may find an answer to any doubt which may arise
as to the proper interpretation of the Laws of Cricket.
F. E. LACEY, Secretary, M.C.C.
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
St. John’s Wood, N.W.
January y 190G.
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
As Revised by the Marylebone Cricket Club,
1884, 1889, 1894, 1899, 1900, 1902 and 1906.
(With decisions and interpretations authorized by
the M.C.C.)
L—A match is played between two sides of eleven players each, unless
otherwise agreed to ; each side has two innings, taken alternately, except
in the case provided for in Law 53. The choice of innings shall be decided
by tossing.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored :—
1st—So often as the Batsmen, after a hit, or at any time while the
ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made good their ground
from end to end.
2nd—For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41, and allowances under 44.
Any run or runs so scored shall be duly recorded by scorers appointed
for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the match. No
match is won unless played out or given up, except in the case provided in
Law 45.
Notes on Laic 2.
When a batsman has actually made more runs for a boundary hit
than have been arranged for the boundary, this Law will prevail, and the
runs completed shouki be scored.
Neither side can be compelled to continue after the match is finished.
In a One Day Match the Umpires should decide if there is sufficient
time left to carry the game to a further issue after each side has completed
an innings.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two Umpires shall be
appointed ; one for each end.
Note on Law 3.
It should be noted, especially in League and Saturday Matches, that
Umpires are appointed “one for each end” and not one for each side.
The Gome
Runs
Appoint-
ment of
Umpires.
6
The Ball. 4.—The Ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a half, nor more
than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall measure not less than nine
inches, nor more than nine inches and one-quarter in circumference. At
the beginning of each innings either side may demand a new ball.
Note on Law 4.
It has become the practice to call for a new ball at any time, with the
Umpire’s consent, if the old one has become damaged or if the bowler has
lifted the seam to obtain a better hold.
The Bat. 5.—The Bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter in the widest
part; it shall not be more than thirty-eight inches in length.
(See under Instructions to Umpires.)
The wickets 6.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel t o each ot her at
a distance of twenty-two yards. Each wicket shall be eight inches in width,
and consist of three stumps, with two bails upon the top. The stumps shall
be of equal and of sufficient size to prevent the ball from passing through,
twenty-seven inches out of the ground. The bails shall be each four inches
in length, and when in position, on the top of the stumps, shall not project
more "than half-an-inch above them. The wickets shall not be changed
during a match, unless the ground between them become unfit for play, and
then only by consent of both sides.
TheBowling 7.—The Bowling Crease shall be in a line with the stumps : eight feet
Crease. eight inches in length ; the stumps in the centre ; with a Return Crease at
each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
Note on Laio 7.
The Return Crease is shortened for convenience. It must be deemed
unlimited in length.
ThePopping 8.—The Popping Crease shall be marked four feet from the wicket,
crease. parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.
The Ground. 9.—The Ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown, or beaten
during a match, except before the commencement of each innings and of
each day’s play, when, unless the In-side object, the ground shall be swept
and rolled for not more than ten minutes. This shall not prevent the
batsman from beating the ground with his bat, nor the batsmen nor
bowler from using sawdust in order to obtain a proper foothold.
Note on Law 9.
The batting side has a right to have the ground swept and rolled " for
not more than 10 minutes” before the commencement of each innings
and of each day’s play. It is the duty of the Captain to see that his
side obtain this advantage. The ground in this law means “ the pitch.”
10.—The Ball must be bowled; if thrown or jerked either Umpire shall
NoBalL call “No Ball.”
11.—The Bowler shall deliver the Ball with one foot on the around
behind the howling crease, and within the return crease, otherwise the
Umpire shall call “ No Ball.”
Notes on Law 11.
/Y bowler may bowl with both feet behind the bowling crease provided
that one foot is within the return crease.
If a bowler knock the wicket with his foot in delivering the ball and remove
a bail, such act does not in itself justify an ‘Umpire in calling “ No Ball.”
When part of the bowler’s foot is grounded on or outside the return
crease the Umpire should call “NoBall.”
Many bowlers deliver the ball with the toe of the back foot pointing
towards the near wicket, and with the heel towards and over the return
crease. If the bowler so delivers the ball with the heel on the ground, the
Umpire “No Balls” him (the foot not being entirely within the return
crease). If he delivers with the heel raised off the ground and keens that
part, of the foot which is on the ground within the return crease the delivery
is allowed as fair.
One foot must ho grounded behind the bowling and within the return
crease when the ball is delivered.
12.—If the Bowler shall bowl the Ball so high over or so wide of the Wide Ball
wicket, that, in the opinion of the Umpire, it is not within reach of the
Striker, the Umpire shall call “Wide Ball.”
Notes on Law 12.
The test for the Umpire to apply in deciding if the ball is wide is
whether it is within reach of the Striker.
When the ball has been delivered but remains stationary before reaching
the striker no runs can be added to the score, unless it has been struck by
the striker. The striker has a right to hit the ball without interference by
the field. The Umpire must decide if the ball has been “de’ivered.”
If the striker hit a ball which has been called “ Wide” the call should
be ignored.
When only one run has been made from a “ Wide Ball ” the batsmen
do not cross over to the positions they were in before the run was made.
13.—The Ball shall be bowled in Overs of six balls from each wicket rhe Ovcr
alternately. When six balls have been bowled, and the ball is finally settled
in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s hands, the Umpire shall call “Over.”
Neither a “No Ball” nor “Wide Ball” shall be reckoned as one of the
“ Over.”
Notes on Law 13.
This Law should bo read with Law 16. Though provision is made in
Law 16 by which the Striker may obtain runs from a “ No Ball” the fact
remains that “ neither a No Ball nor Wide Ball shall be reckoned as one of
the over.”
.Although not counted in the over No Balls and Wides are recorded in
their proper place on the score sheet.
It is Umpire’s and not the Scorer’s duty to call over.
s
Sco.
No i
Wid
Scoring off
No Balls A
Wide Balls.
Bye.
Piny.
Piny.
Deflniti
14.—The Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as he pleases,
provided only that he docs not bowl two Overs consecutively in one
innings.
15.—The Bowler may require the Batsman at the wicket from which he
is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may direct.
16.—The Striker may hit a “ No Ball,’' and whatever runs result shall
be added to his score : but he shall not be out from a “ No Ball,” unless he
be run out or break Laws 26, 27, 29, 30. All runs made from a “ No Ball,”
otherwise than from the bat, shall be scored “ No Balls.” and if no run be
made one run shall be added to that score. From a “ Wide Ball ” as many
nins as are run shall be added to the score as “ Wide Balls,” and if no run
be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
Notes on Law 16.
(See Law 13 and Note.)
When a run is made by the bat off a “ No Ball” only the run to the
batsman should be scored and not the “ No Ball ” as well. If one run is
attempted and the batsman is run out the “ No Ball ” alone counts. If runs
are made off a “ No Ball,” although the runs are scored and not the
“No Ball,” the bowler is allowed another delivery.
When Byes or Overthrows are run from a “Wide” they are scored as
“ Wides.”
A Batsman may be out “hit wicket,” when striking at a “ Wide.”
17.—If the ball, not having been called “ Wide” or “ No Ball,” pass the
Striker without touching his bat, or person, and any runs be obtained, the
Umpire shall call “Bye”; but if the ball touch any part of the Striker’s
person (hand excepted) and any run be obtained, the Umpire shall call
“ Leg Bye,” such runs to be scored “ Byes” and “ Leg Byes ” respectively.
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings, the Umpire at
the Bowler’s wicket shall call “ Play ” : from that time no trial ball shall be
allowed to any bowler on the ground between the wickets, and when one of
the batsmen is out, the use of the bat shall not be allowed to any person
until the next batsman shall come in.
Definitions. 19.—A Batsman shall be held to be “out of his ground,” unless his bat
in hand, or some part of his person be grounded within the line of the
Popping Crease.
Notes on Law 19.
It is sufficient if part of the batsman’s foot is grounded within the line.
If the foot is on the line, but no part is within, the batsman would be “ out
of his ground.”
If the batsman is in the act of jumping in the air and the bat is also oft
the ground he would be “ out of his ground.”
9
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “ down,” when either of the bails
is struck oil’, or if both bails be oil’, when a stump is struck out of the
ground.
Notes on Law 20.
If one bail is off it is sufficient to remove the remaining one with the
ball in order to stump or run a batsman out.
Although the Law says nothing about the stumps being pulled out it is
customary to run a batsman out in this way when the bails are off; but the
ball must be in the fieldsman’s hand when he uses it for this purpose.
The Striker is Out—
21.— If the wicket be bowled down, even if the ball first touch the
Striker’s bat or person ;—“ Bowled.”
Note on Law 21.
An Umpire would be justified in giving a batsman out “Bowled” if
a stump were bowled down, but the bails by some mischance remained in
position.
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not the wrist,
be held before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to the body of the
catcher ;—“ Caught.”
Notes on Law 22.
The ball must not touch the ground before it is held ; but the hand
holding the ball may touch the ground in effecting the catch.
When a fieldsman catches a ball and falls and the ball touches the
ground, it is a question of fact for the Umpire to decide whether or not the
catch was completed before the ball touched the ground.
When a Batsman plays a ball on to the ground and in order to prevent
it hitting the wicket, after touching the ground, he strikes it again and the
ball is caught, the batsman is not out. But if he hit the ball a second time
before it touches the ground and is caught, he would be out under this Law.
A Batsman would be out if caught oft a ball which before striking
the bat had hit his pad.
If no boundaries have been arranged a Striker can be caught off a tree,
hedge, or building.
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched by the bat
or hand, the Striker be out of his ground, and the wicket be put down by
the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with hand or arm with ball in hand
“ Stumped.” •
Notes on Law 23.
If the ball rebounds off the pads or person of the wicket-keeper, without
having first touched the bat or hand of the Striker, and the Striker is out
of his ground the decision should be “ Stumped,” and not “ Run Out.”
The Striker
Seo
No i
wid
10
It is sufficient for the wicket-keeper to remove one bail in order ot run
out or stump a batsman.
It would not be out if he were to knock the bails off with his foot, or
with an arm or hand not holding the ball.
24.—Or, if with part of his person he stops the ball, which in the opinion
of the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall have been pitched in a straight
line from it to the Striker’s wicket and would have hit it;—“Leg before
wicket.”
./Votex on Law 24.
A Batsman may be out 1 b w, although the howler is bowling round the
wicket, if the case comes within this Law.
There are three considerations which an Umpire must bear in mind :—
(1) Would the ball have hit the wicket? (2) Did it pitch in a straight line
between wicket and wicket? (3) Was it part of the batsman’s person
which intercepted the ball ? If these questions are answered in the affirma-
tive the batsman would be out.
It is immaterial whether the ball breaks or not. It is sometimes only
possible for a bowler bowling round the wicket to obtain an 1 b w with a
breaking ball.
Play.
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with his bat or
any part of his person or dress ;—“ Hit Wicket.”
Notes on Law 25.
(See Law 16, Note 3.)
If in making a second stroke to keep a ball out of his wicket, the
Striker hit down his wicket as above he would be out.
A batsman would not be out for breaking the wicket either with his bat
or person when in the act of running.
If while playing at the ball, but not otherwise, the Striker’s hat or cap
fell on the wicket and dislodged a bail he would be out.
Deflniti
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, cither of the batsmen
wilfully prevent a ball from being caught;—“ Obstructing the field.”
Note on Law 26.
It should be noted that it is the Striker who is out if this Law is
infringed.
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of his person,
and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done for the purpose of guarding
his wicket, which he may do with his bat, or any part of his person, except
his hands;—“ Hit the ball twice.
11
Notes on Law 27.
It is for the Umpire to decide whether the ball has been struck
“ wilfully ” for some purpose other than that of guarding the wicket. The
fact that a run is attempted may be evidence of the batsman’s intention to
take advantage of the second stroke and the Umpire is entitled to regard
it as such, but it is not conclusive.
If the ball has been lawfully struck twice and an overthrow is made, the
batsmen are entitled to the runs which follow.
A Striker may be out for hitting the ball twice, although no run is
attempted.
Either Batsman is Out—
28.—If in running, or at any other time, when the ball is in play he be The
out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down by the ball after touching Batamau.
any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, with ball in hand, of any fieldsman ;
—“ Run out.”
Notes on Law 28.
(See Notes to Law 20.)
It would not be out if the striker hit the ball into the opposite wickets
—the other batsman being out of his ground—unless the ball had been
touched by a fieldsman after being hit and before striking the wickets.
Either batsman can be “run out” at any time when the ball is in play
by any fieldsman, including the bowler.
For a definition of “out of his ground” see Law 19 and Notes.
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball while in play,
unless at the request of the opposite side ;—“ Handled the ball. ”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any Fieldsman ;—“ Obstructing the field.”
Note on Law 30.
The Umpire must decide on the facts before him if the obstruction was
“ wilful.”
31.—If the batsmen have crossed each other, he that runs for the
wicket which is put down Is out; if they have not crossed he that has left
the wicket which is put down is out.
32.—The Striker being caught no run shall be scored. A Batsman
being run out, that run which was being attempted shall not be scored.
Notes on Law 32.
( See Notes on Law’ 22.)
Although that run which is being attempted shall not be scored it is not
the custom for the remaining batsman to resume his position at the wicket
he has left if he and his partner have crossed.
12
Sco
No
Wic
33'7.—A Batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be “ Dead ”
336.—If the Ball, whether st nick with the bat or not, lodges in a
Batsman’s Clothing, the ball shall become “Dead.”
Notes on Laws 33a and 33b.
A ball does not become “Dead” when the bails are off or the wickets
struck down or because an unsuccessful appeal has been made to the Umpire.
Lodging in a batsman’s clothing includes practically all ways in which a
ball can be said to lodge in or against his clothing.
The ball does not become “Dead” on hitting the Umpire.
The ball ceases to be “Dead” when the bowler begins his run or
bowling action.
Lost Ball. 34.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any Fieldsman may
call “Lost Ball,” when the ball shall be “Dead”; six runs shall be added to
the score; but if more than six runs have been run before “Lost Ball” has
been called, as many runs as have been run shall be scored.
Note on Law 34.
A ball can only become “Dead” under Laws 33<z, 33b, 34, 35, 41 & 50,
or on the call of a boundary hit.
Ploy.
Definite
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in the Wicket-keeper’s
or Bowler’s hand, it shall be “Dead”; but when the Bowler is about to
deliver the ball, if the Batsman at his wicket be out of his ground before
actual delivery, the said Bowler may run him out; but if the Bowler throw
at that wicket and any run result, it shall be scored “No Ball.”
Notes on Law 35.
Whether the ball is “finally settled” is a question of fact for the Umpire
only to decide.
A bowler may run a Batsman out, without having delivered the ball, in
anyway authorized by the Laws. He may have passed the. howling crease
in bis run or may change the ball from one hand to the other before throwing
at the wicket or knocking oft* the bails. The bails may be knocked off from
either side of the wickets.
36.—A Batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return to it to
complete his innings after another has been in, without the consent of the
opposite side.
Substitute. 37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between wickets for
any player, who may during the match, be incapacitated from illness or
injury, but for no other reason, except with the consent of the opposite side.
13
Notes on Law 37.
It is well to remember that a side which loses a player’s services through
illness or injury, brought about during a match, is entitled to a substitute,
“it shall be allowed” whereas under other circumstances consent is necessary
which must depend upon the courtesy of the opposing Captain.
Many disputes would be avoided if the Captains, before tossing,
exchanged lists of the players.
There is no law prohibiting a player from bowling because he has had a
substitute to run for him.
A side which has been short in the field may bat with its full number.
38.—In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the consent of the
opposite side shall be obtained as to the person to act as substitute, and the
place in the field which he shall take.
39.—In case any substitute shall be allowed to run between wickets, the
Striker may be run out if cither he or his substitute be out of his ground.
If the Striker be out of his ground while the ball is in play, that wicket
which he has left may be put down and the Striker given out, although the
other batsman may have made good the ground at that end, and the Striker
and his substitute at the other end.
Note on Law 39.
The distinction between the words “Striker” and “Batsman” should be
appreciated. When the injured Batsman is not the Striker he is subject to
no penalty under this Law.
40.—A Batsman is liable to be out for any infringement of the Laws by
his substitute.
41.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person, but The
if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be “Dead,” and five runs added Fieldsman.
to the score ; whatever runs may have been made, five only shall be added.
Note on Law 41.
The “five runs” are to be added to the runs already made when the
Fieldsman “wilfully” stopped the ball.
42.—The Wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket. If he shall Wicket
take the ball for the purpose of stumping, before it has passed the wicket, e°l,er
or, if he shall incommode the Striker by any noise, or motion, or if any
part of his person be over or before the wicket, the Striker shall not be out,
excepting under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30.
Note on Law 42.
A Wicket-keeper may run a Batsman out by going in front of the
Wicket (Law 28) the Umpire must decide from the facts, if the act is legal.
43.—The Umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, of the fitness Duties of
of the ground, the weather, and the light for play; all disputes, shall be Umpires
determined by them, and if they disagree the actual state of things shall
continue.
(See also Instructions to Umpires.)
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where necessary,
and the allowances to be made for them, and change ends after each side
has had one innings.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each Striker to come in, and ten
minutes between each innings. When they shall call “Play” the side
refusing to play shall lose the match.
Notes on Law 45.
The In going Batsman should meet the out-coming batsman before he
enters the Pavilion.
It is the duty of the Captains to see that this Law is strictly observed.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to by the
other side.
N.B.—An appeal, “How’s that?” covers all ways of being out (within
the jurisdiction of the Umpire appealed to), unless a specific way of getting
out is stated by the person .asking.
47.—The Umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be appealed to before the
other Umpire in all cases, except in those of stumping, hit wicket, run out
at the Striker’s wicket, or arising out of Law 42, but in any case in which
an Umpire is unable to give a decision, he shall appeal to the other Umpire
whose decision shall be final.
Note on Law 47.
When the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket has given a Batsman “not
out” the other Umpire may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction,
subject to an observance of Law 50.
48.—If either Umpire be not satisfied of the absolute fairness of the
delivery of any ball, he shall call “No Ball.”
48'7.—The Umpires shall take especial care to call “No Ball” instantly
upon delivery ; “Wide Ball” as soon as it shall have passed the striker.
Note on Law 48 and 48a.
If an Umpire has called “No Ball” when the ball has not been delivered
he should revoke his decision.
49.—If either batsman run a short run, the Umpire shall call “One
short” and the run shall not be scored.
(See Notes under “The Batsman,” page 16.)
50.—After the Umpire has called “Over” the ball is “Deml,” but an
appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is out, such appeal
however shall not be made after the delivery of the next ball, nor after any
cessation of play.
Note on Law 50.
No act on the part of the fielding side can cause a batsman to be out
after the Umpire has called “Over,” but an appeal may be made within the
allotted time.
15
51.—No Umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No Umpire shall be changed during a match, unless with the
consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law 51 ; then either side
may dismiss him.
53.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in a three days’
match, or by 100 runs in a two days’ match, shall have the option of i^nings!^
requiring the other side to follow their innings.
54.—The In-side may declare their innings at an end in a three days’
match, at or after the luncheon interval on the second day ; in a two days’
match the Captain of the batting side has power to declare his innings at a
close at any time ; but such declaration may not be made on the first day
later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the hour agreed on for drawing
stumps ; in a one day match at any time.
Notes on Law 54.
(See also Instructions to Umpires as to “declaring.”
A declaration of a first innings does not preclude a second innings.
For the purpose of stating the result of a match, an innings declared at
an end is regarded as completed and the victory, if accomplished, is in runs
and not by wickets.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which bats first and leads by 75 inns shall have the option
of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
2.—The Match, unless played out, shall be decided by the First Innings.
Prior to the commencement of a match it may be agreed :—that the Over
consist of 5 or G balls.
N.B.—A tie is included in the words “played out.”
SINGLE WICKET.
The Laws are, where they apply, the same as the above, with the
following alterations and additions.
1.—One Wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a Bowling Stump
opposite to it, at a distance of twenty-two yards. The Bowling crease shall
be in a line with the bowling stump ; and drawn according to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five players on a side, Bounds shall be
placed twenty-two yards each in a line from the oft and leg stump.
3.—The ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the Striker to a
run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or
crease in a line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them,
and return to the popping crease.
4.—When the Striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the
ground behind the popping crease, otherwise the Umpire shall call “ No Hit,”
and no run shall be scored.
5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither Byes,
Leg lives, nor Overthrows shall be allowed, nor shall the Striker be caught
out behind the. wicket, nor stumped.
6.—The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the ground
between the wicket and the bowling stump, or between the bowling stump
and the bounds; the Striker may run till the ball be so returned.
7.—After the Striker shall have made one run, if he start again he must
touch the bowling stump or crease, and turn before the ball cross the
ground to entitle him to another.
8.—The Striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the
same number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with
any part of his person.
9.—When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall
be no bounds. All Hits, Byes, Leg Byes, and Overthrows shall then be
allowed.
10.—There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled in Overs,
but no more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
THE BATSMAN.
When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some other
unavoidable cause his innings must be counted as “Not out.”
A Side which has fielded with ten men, or less, may bat with its full
strength provided no disqualification rule applies.
When a short run is called it is not customary for the batsmen to cross
over to the positions they would liave been in if the run had not been
attempted.
17
THE BOWLER.
There is no objection to the bowlers’ footholes being filled up with
sawdust, though the game be not actually in progress.
(See Instructions to Umpires.)
It some times happens that the bowler will lift the seam of the ball in
order to obtain a better hold. This is not legitimate. The ball, in such a
case, should be shown to the Umpire who should call for a new ball and
warn the Captain that the practice is unfair.
A bowler can bowl round and over the wicket in the same over ; but he
should give the batsman an opportunity of taking a fresh guard. The same
remarks apply to a change from over to under arm bowling, oriuce versa.
THE BOUNDARY.
(Sec Notes to Law 2.)
If a ball hit or pass over or through the boundary or is carried over it
by the fieldsman the Umpire should call a boundary hit, but a fieldsman
may lean against the boundary to catch or field a ball, and if a fieldsman
when standing within the playing ground, even though he be touching the
boundary, catch a ball outside the boundary the batsman should be given
out.
When the ball touches the boundary it becomes “Dead.”
The Umpire is not a boundary.
It is for the Umpire to decide if a hit has reached the boundary.
If a seat or other obstacle is placed in the playing ground, within
boundaries, and such obstacle is struck by the ball it cannot be regarded
as a boundary unless so arranged by the Umpires.
18
Sco
No
Wk
UMPIRES.
(See also instructions to Umpires.)
An Umpire should stand where he can clearly sec the act upon which
his decision may be required.
Umpires should not call “Time” before the Over is finished unless
a wicket fall within two minutes of “Time.” (See Law 45.)
It is not the scorers business to dictate to the Umpire. The Umpire
should direct the scorer what to record.
An Umpire may alter his decision if in the hurry of the moment or by
a slip of the tonpie he hasgiven a wrong one. Provided that such alteration
is made before the next ball is bowled, or, if cessation of play immediately
follows the decision, before the fieldsmen leave the field.
It is not part of an Umpire’s duty to call hack a batsman who is leaving
the wicket under a misapprehension : But the Umpire should try and
prevent such misapprehension by “calling” distinctly and by giving the
proper signal.
The Umpires should agree between themselves, before play, what watch
or clock they shall follow in deciding intervals and close of play.
Play.
Definite
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES.
FITNESS OF G HOU ND.
Law 43.—At the commencement of a Match, the Umpires may be
appealed to by either side as to the fitness of the Ground for play.
Should they not agree, play will not commence until they arc agreed.
In case of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has ceased, the
Umpires shall, immediately, without further instruction, inspect the wicket,
unaccompanied by any of the players, and decide upon its fitness. Should
it prove unfit, they shall continue to inspect at intervals, until they decide
that it is fit for play, when they shall call upon the players to resume
the game.
The ground is unfit for play—when water stands on the surface, or
when it is so wet, muddy, or slippery a’s to deprive the bowlers of a
reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the power of free movement.
19
The Umpires are not to be biassed by the opinions of either side, still
less are they to allow themselves to be influenced by the impatience of the
spectators for a resumption of the game, and are not to be induced, by the
public interest in a particular match, to declare the ground fit for play,
unless they would consider that Ground fit under any circumstances.
FITNESS OF LIGHT FOR PLAY.
The Umpires may decide, on appeal from either of the batsmen or from
any member of the fielding side, that there is not sufficient light for Play.
Should the light improve before the time for drawing stumps, they shall,
without waiting for instructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
In the event of the Captains agreeing as to the condition of the ground
or light, the Umpires will, so far, be relieved of their responsibility.
Law 4".—An Umpire is only justified in appealing to the other Umpire,
when he is unable to decide, owing to his having been prevented from seeing
the occurrence on which the appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the
other Umpire in cases on which lie could give a decision, merely because he
is unwilling to give that decision. If he be in any doubt, the principle laid
down in Law 43, “That the existing state of things shall continue,” shall be
followed, and in consequence, the decision should be in favour of the
batsman.
Law 48.—The special attention of Umpires is called to this Law, which
directs them to call “No Ball,” unless absolutely satisfied of the fairness of
the delivery.
Umpires should not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by appeals
from such of the field who were not in a position to form a judgment on
the point appealed upon, or by tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on
appealing for a catch at the wicket, without waiting for the decision.
Umpires being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, should remember that
such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accordance with the spirit
in which cricket should be played.
Umpires are not justified in deciding the ground unfit for play merely
because the grass is wet and the ball would, in consequence, be slippery.
In order to facilitate play at the earliest possible moment in wet weather
the Umpires shall see that the foot holes made by the bowlers and batsmen
are cleaned out, dried, and filled up with sawdust at any time during the
match, although the game is not actually in progress.
Umpires should see that there is no infringement of Law 5. When in
doubt as to the width of a bat they should use the gauge.
DECLARING
(See Law 54.)
(a) If a side declare its innings during the luncheon interval, it must
do so within fifteen minutes after the commencement of such interval,
otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(b) If a side declare its innings closed in the morning before play
commences, it must do so in sufficient time to enable the other side to choose
the roller it prefers, otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed for rolling.
Sco
No
Wic
20
CODE OF* SIGNALLING.
Boundaries shall bo signalled by waving the hand from side to side.
Byes shall be signalled by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg-byes shall be signalled by raising the leg and touching it with the
hand.
Wides shall be signalled by extending both arms horizontally.
No-balls shall be signalled by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “Out” shall be signalled by raising the index finger above
the head.
Umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by the scorer
before allowing the game to proceed.
Besides signalling, the Umpire should “call” distinctly for the infor-
mation of the players.
On giving a decision the Umpire should make sure that the batsman
understands what the decision is.
Play.
RULES OF COUNTY CRICKET.
1.—A cricketer bom in one county and residing in another may not
play for more than one county during the same season.
2.—Qualification by Birth.—A cricketer is always eligible to play
for the county of his birth.
Note.
Although a cricketer can always return to the county of his birth, it is
expedient as an act of courtesy, to give notice to the county for which he
has had a residential qualification if he intends to leave it.
3.—Qualification by Residence.—A cricketer is qualified to play for
any county in which he has resided for the previous 24 months and is
residing but
(a) The mere acquirement or hiring of a tenement, unless used as a
bona fide home, does not constitute “residence.”
(b) The occupation of a tenement during the cricket season only does
not constitute “residence.”
Note.
h. residential qualification cannot be obtained through a School or
University unless such School or University has also been the home.
21
4.—Where a cricketer uses as residences in the course of the year,
tenements in more than one county, or where he leaves the country for the
winter months, and in all other cases where his qualification is in any doubt,
it is obligatory on the county for which he wishes to play to prove his
qualification to the satisfaction of the M.C.C.
5.—A cricketer who has played for a county for five successive years is
qualified to play for that county for the rest of his cricket career, or until
he plays for some other county.’
Note.
This docs not include a cricketer who has resided in but has not played
for a county.
6.—A cricketer may play for his old county during the two years that he
is qualifying for another.
7.—Transfers.—/V cricketer, already qualified for a county but wishing
to qualify by residence for another county, must give notice in writing to
the Cricket Chib Committee of the former county before he commences such
residence ; and a County Cricket Chib wishing to engage, under a residential
qualification, a cricketer who is already qualified for another County Club,
must inform the committee of the latter before commencing negotiations
with the cricketer.
Note.
This rule includes a cricketer who has never played for a county.
S.—Appeal.—Should any question arise under these rules it shall be
left to the decision of the committee of the Marylebone Club which shall be
final.
Note.
These rules so far as they are not inconsistent with the Minor Counties
Cricket Association Rules, hereinafter mentioned, apply also to the Minor
Counties.
For purposes of county cricket, county boundaries are not affected by
the Local Goveiment Act, 1888.
CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTIES.
Cricketing counties shall be considered as belonging to first-class or
second-class. There is no necessity for further sub-division.
First-class counties are those whose matches, with one another, with
M.C.C. and Ground, with the Universities, with the Australians, and such
other elevens as shall be adjudged “first-dass matches” by the M.C.C.
Committee, are used in compilation of first-class batting and bowling
averages.
Second-class Counties are those not included in the first-class and second
elevens of first-class counties.
There shall be no limit to the number of first or second-class
counties. The M.C.C. Committee may bring new counties into the list,
may remove existing ones from it or may do Doth.
Sco
No
Wj(
00
THE COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIP.
FIRST CLASS.
After the close of each cricket season the Committee of the M.C.C. shall
decide the county championship.
It shall be competed for by first-class counties. No county shall be
eligible unless it shall have played at least eight out and home matches
with other counties, provided that if no play can take place owing to
weather or other unavoidable cause such match shall be reckoned as
unfinished.*
One point shall be reckoned for each win ; one deducted for each loss ;
unfinished games shall not be reckoned.
The county which during the season shall have, in finished matches,
obtained the greatest proportionate number of points shall be reckoned
champion county.
* This number has, on several occasions, when the Australians have
visited this Country, been reduced by the M.C.C.
MINOR COUNTY CRICKET
ASSOCIATION RULES.
Play.
Deflniti-
1.—The Association shall be called “The Minor Counties’ Cricket
Association.”
2.—All Counties not in the First Class, as classified by the M.C.C., and
the 2nd Elevens of First Class Counties shall be eligible to join the Associa-
tion and shall be entitled to compete in the 2nd Division of the County
Championship.
3.—The Annual Meeting of the Association shall he held at Lord’s at
at 11 o’clock on the same day as the Annual Meeting of County Secretaries,
unless in the opinion of the Hon. Secretaries an earlier hour is necessary.
4.—The Hon. Secretaries for the ensuing year shall be appointed at the
Annual Meeting.
5.—For the general purposes of the Association there shall be a
Committee consisting of one representative from each of the Counties
forming the Association. An Emergency Committee, consisting of one
representative each from six of the Counties (with the Hon. Secretaries of
the Association) shall be appointed at every Annual Meeting.
I
23
6.—Only one representative from each County shall he entitled to vote
at General Meetings of the Association.
7.—Notices of any New Rules or of Motions to be brought forward at
the Annual Meeting shall be sent to the lion. Secretaries before the end of
October, in order that they may circulate them amongst the Counties for
consideration.
8.	-No County or Second Eleven shall be eligible for the 2nd Division
Championship, unless it shall have played at least four out and home
matches with other Second Class Counties or Second Elevens who are
themselves qualified competitors.
9.— Points in the competition shall be reckoned as follows Three
points shall be scored for a win in a completed Match. Should the
Match not be completed, the side loading on the First Innings shall score
two points. In the event of a tie the points shall be divided. In a Match
in which play shall have taken place, but no result on the 1st innings shall
have been attained, each side shall score one point.
10.—The County which, during the season shall, have obtained the
greatest proportionate number of points shall be reckoned Champion
County of the 2nd Division.
11.—Neutral Umpires shall be provided for all Matches in the competition,
and the arrangements for the selection and appointment of such Umpires
shall be left to the Secretary of the M.CC.
12.—Matches in the Competition shall commence not later than 11.30
on the first day and 11 o’clock on the second day.
13.—The result of each match in the Competition shall be telegraphed
to the Hon. Secretaries, immediately on its conclusion, by the County on
whose ground it shall have been played.
14.— All disputes arising out of the Laws of the Game shall be referred
to the M.C.C., whose decisions shall be final.
15.—Except where they are inconsistent with the foregoing Rules, the
Rules governing the matches of the 1st Division of the County Champion-
ship shall apply.
December, 1904.

Seo
No
W|<
24
ADVISORY COUNTY CRDC^ET
COMMITTEE.
I
in 1904, with the approval of the Counties, the A1.C.C.
formed an Advisory County Cricket Committee to consider
cases arising out of County and other Cricket.
RULES.
Play.
1.—The Advisory County Cricket Committee shall consist of a represeii- ,
tutive of each First Class County, appointed by his Committee, and three ■
members representing and appointed by the Minor Counties Cricket S
Association and at least one member of the M.C.C.
2.—The Chairman of this Committee shall be the President of the I
M.C.C. ; or some other member of the Committee of the M.C.C. nominated I
by him, or in default of such nomination, by the Committee of the M.C.C. I
3.—All resolutions passed by this Committee shall be submitted to |
the M.C.C. Committee for confirmation.
Dcflniti
4.—A meeting may be convened either by five, or more, First Class jI
Counties ; or by the Minor Counties Cricket Association and two, or more, g
First Class Counties ; or by the M.C.C., and notice shall be sent to all j
parties interested at least 14 days before the day of meeting.
5.—The notice shall contain an agenda of the meeting. Notice of an |
amendment to a resolution on the agenda must be given, at least, one week [
before the day of meeting.