WITH
Decisions & Interpretations authorized
by the M.C.C.
Rules of County Cricket.
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPIRES.
COUNTY QUALi FSCATIONS.
Minor County Rules.
ADVISORY COUNTY CRICKET COMMITTEE
AND
Board of Control Rules.
Threepence.
By Post Fourpenoe.
z LONDON :
Printed by The Marylebone Cricket Club.
1914.
AIL Hights Reserved.

Rules of County Cricket & Instructions to Umpires
WITH
Decisions and Interpretations authorized by the M.C.C.
PREFACE.
The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties which
arc known to exist, although they arc not always apparent.
Hundreds of eases are sent to the M.C.C. for decision every
year. It is from this source that the chief difficulties have
become manifest. Saturday and League matches arc especially
productive of disputes and it is hoped that those who read
these notes may find an answer to any doubt which may arise
as to the proper interpretation of the Laws of Cricket.
F. E. LACEY, Secretary, M.C.C.
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
St. John’s Wood, N.W.
May, 191/f.
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
As Revised by the Marylebone Cricket Club,
1884, 1889, 1S94, 1899, 1900, 1902, 1900, 1908, 1910 and 1912.
(With decisions and interpretations authorized by
the M.C.C.)
1.—A match is played between two sides of eleven players each, 7110 Oftme
unless otherwise agreed to ; each side has two innings, taken
alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53. The choice
of innings shall be decided by tossing.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scoredRu
1st So often as the Batsmen, after a hit, or at any time
while the ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made
good their ground from end to end.
2nd For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41, and allowances
under 44.
Any run or runs so scored shall be duly recorded by scorers
appointed for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the
match. No match is won unless played out or given up, except in
the case provided in Lav; 45.
Notes on Law 2.
Where a batsman takes his guard in front of the popping crease and a
run is made from that point it is not the custom for the Umpire to call
“ one short ”.
When a batsman has actually made more runs for a boundary hit
than have been arranged for the boundary, this Law will prevail, and the
runs completed should be scored.
Neither side can be compelled to continue after the match is finished.
In a One Day Match the Umpires should decide if there is sufficient
time left to carry the game to a further issue after each side has completed
an innings. , , x
Appoint
3.—Before the commencement of the match two Umpires shall mentor
bo appointed ; one for each end. Umpire*.
Note on Law 3.
It should be noted, especially in League and Saturday Matches, tha
Umpires are appointed “ one for each end” and not one for each side
The Dall.
The Bat.
TheWickets
no Bowling
Crease.
ThePopping
Crease.
The Ground.
6
4.—The Ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a half,
nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall measure
not less than nine inches, nor more than nine inches and one-
quarter in circumference. At the beginning of each innings
either side may demand a new balk
Note on Law 4.
(See Instructions to Umpires, “ new balk”)
It has become the practice to call for a new ball at any time, with the
Umpire’s consent, if the old one has become damaged or if the bowler has
lifted the scam to obtain a better hold.
5.—The Bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter in
the widest part; it shall not be more than thirty-eight inches in
length.
(See under instructions to Umpires.)
6.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each
other at a distance of twenty-two yards. Each wicket shall be
eight inches in width, and consist of three stumps, with two bails
upon the top. The stumps shall be of equal and of sufficient size
to prevent the ball from passing through, twenty-seven inches out
of the ground. The bails shall be each four inches in length, and
when in position, on the top of the stumps, shall not project more
than half-an-inch above them. The wickets shall not be changed
during a match, unless the ground between them become unfit
for play, and then only by consent of both sides.
7.—The bowling crease shall be in a line with' the stumps;
eight feet eight inches in length ; the stumps in the centre ; with
a Return Crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
Note on Law 7.
The Return Crease is shortened for convenience. It mus.t be deemed
unlimited in lenirth.
8.	-The Popping Crease shall be marked four feet from the
wicket, parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.
9.—The Ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown, or
beaten during a match, except before the commencement of each
innings and of each day’s play, when, unless the In-Side object,
the ground shall be swept and rolled for not more than ten minutes.
This shall not prevent the batsman from beating the ground with
his bat, nor the batsmen nor bowler from using sawdust in order
to obtain a proper foothold.
Note on Law 9.
The batting side has a right to have the ground swept and rolled “for
not more than 10 minutes” before the commencement of each innings
and of each day’s play. It is the duty of the Captain to see that his
side obtain this advantage. The ground in this law means “ the pitch.”
The responsibility of supervising the rolling of the pitch before play will,
in the first place, rest with the Umpires.
Pending an alteration to this Law the M.C.C. have advised the County
Cricket Clubs to concur in the following procedure to adopt any covering to
protect the ground against rain at any time after 7 o’clock a.m. on the
morning of the first day of a match. After the actual commencement
of play the ground may be again protected when necessary and shall be
protected every night during the continuation of a match, but the covering
shall be removed each morning, if fine, at 7 o’clock a.m The covering
must not protect a larger area than 18ft by 12ft at each end, and must
not protect more than 3ft Gin in front of the popping crease.
7
10.—The Ball must be bowled ; if thrown or jerked either Umpire The Rowior
shall call “No-ball.” aoBnii.
11.	The Bowler shall deliver the Ball with one foot on the ground
behind the bowling crease, and within the return crease, otherwise
the Umpire shall call “No-Ball.”
Notes on Law 11.
A bowler may bowl with both feet behind the bowling crease provided
that one foot is within the return crease.
1 f a bowler knock the wicket with is foot in delivering the ball and remove
a bail, such act docs not in itself justify an Umpire in calling “No Ball.”
When part of the bowler’s foot is grounded on or outside the return
crease the Umpire should call “ No Ball.”
Many bowlers deliver the ball with the toe of the back foot pointing
towards the near wicket, and with the heel towards and over the return
crease. If the bowler so delivers the ball with the heel on the ground, the
Umpire “No Balls” him (the foot not being entirely within the return
crease). If he delivers with the heel raised off the ground and keens that
part of the foot which is on the ground within the return ci ease the delivery
is allowed as fair.
One foot must be grounded behind the bowling and within the return
crease when the ball is delivered.
The Umpire in this law refers to the Umpire at the bowlers wicket.
12.—If the Bowler shall bowl the Ball so high over or so wide of Wide Bell.
the wicket, that in the opinion of the Umpire, it is not within reach
of the Striker, the Umpire shall call “Wide Ball.”
Notes on Law 12.
The test for the Umpire to apply in deciding if the ball is wide is
whether it is within reach of the Striker.
When the ball has been delivered but remains stationary before reaching
the striker no runs can be added to the score, unless it has been struck by
the striker. The striker has a right to hit the ball without interference by
the field. The Umpire must decide if the ball has been “delivered.”
If the striker hit a ball which has been called “ Wide” the call should
be ignored.
When only one run has been made from a “Wide Ball” the batsmen
do not cross over to the positions they were in before the run was made.
When a wide is called the ball does noton that account become “dead”
and the batsman may be out stumped or run out.
13,—The Ball shall be bowled in Overs of six balls from each The over.
wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled, and the
ball is finally settled in the Bowler's or Wicket-keeper’s hands, the
Umpire shall call “Over.” Neither a “No-3all” nor “Wide Ball” shall
be reckoned as one of the “Over.”
Notes on Law 13.
This Law should be read with Law 16. Though provision is made in
Law 16 by which the Striker may obtain runs from a “No Ball” the fact
remains that “neither a No Ball’nor Wide Ball shall be reckoned as one of
the over.”
Although not counted in the over No Balls and Wides should be recorded
in their proper place on the score sheet.
An over should always he finished, unless a wicket fall within two minutes
of time (see. Law 45), or unless there is a local rule extending the time.
It is Umpire’s and not the Scorer's duty to call over.
s
14.—The Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as
he pleases, provided only that he does not bowl two Overs
consecutively in one innings.
15.—The Bowler may require the Batsman at the wicket from
which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may direct.
Scoring Off 16. —The Striker may hit a “No Ball,” and whatever runs result
w’ shall ba added to his score: but he shall not be out from a
wide Bails. hNo Ball,” unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27, 29, 30.
AH runs made from a “No Bail,” otherwise than from the bat, shall
be’scored “No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall be
added to that score. From a “Wide Ball,” as many runs as are
run shall be added to the score as “Wide Balls,” and if no run
be otherwise obtained one run shall be so added.
Notes on Law 16.
(See Laws 13, 23, 28 and 32 and Notes.)
A Batsman cannot be stumped off a No Ball (Law 16). The Laws of
Cricket clearly make a distinction between the wicket-keeper and the
fieldsmen and between cases of “stumping” and “ run out” (see Laws 23
and 28).
When a No Ball has been called it must be left to the Umpire to decide,
on the facts before him, whether the case is one of “stumping” (under
Law 23) or “ run out,” (under Law 28).
When a run is made by the bat oil’a “No Ball” only the run to the
batsman should be scored and not the “No Ball” as well. If one run is
attempted and the batsman is run out the “ No Ball ” alone counts. If runs
are made off a “No Ball,” although the runs are scored and not the
“ No Ball,” the bowler is allowed another delivery.
When Byes or Overthrows are run from a “ Wide ” they are scored as
i\ “ Widcs.”
A Batsman may be out “hit wicket,” when striking at a “Wide.”
Bye. 17.—If the ball, not having been called “Wide” or “No Ball,”
pass the Striker without touching his bat, cr person, and any
runs be obtained, the Umpire shall call “Bye” ; but if the ball touch
any part of the Striker’s person (hand excepted) and any run be
obtained, the Umpire shall call “Leg Bye,” such runs to be scored
“Byes” and “Leg Byes” respectively.
Plny- 18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings, the
Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall call “Play” ; from that time no
trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground between the
wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out, the use of the bat
shall not be allowed to any person until the next batsman shall
come in.
Note on Law 18.
In 1911 an agreement was arrived at between the Counties that “Trial
balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, be not allowed in First Class
Matches.’
This arrangement was approved and adopted by the M.C.C.
Definitions. 19.—A Batsman shall be held to be “out of his ground,” unless
his bat in hand, or some part of his person be grounded within
the line of the Popping Crease.
9
Notes on Law 19.
It is sufficient if part of the batsman’s foot is grounded within the lino.
If the foot is on the line, but no part is within, the batsman would be “ out
of his ground.”
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “down,” when either of the
baits is struck off, or if both bails be off, when a stump is struck
out of the ground.
Notes on Law 20.
If one bail is off it is sufficient to remove the remaining one with the
ball in order to stump or run a batsman out.
Although the Law says nothing about the stumps being pulled out it is
customary to run a batsman out in this way when the bails are off; but the
ball must be in the fieldsman’s band when he uses it for this purpose.
(See also Law 28.)
The Striker is Out-
21.	If the wicket be bowled down, euen if the ball first touch The striker.
the Striker’s bat or person “Bowled.”
Note on Law 21.
An Umpire would be justified in giving a batsman out “Bowled” if
a stump were bowled down, but the bails by some mischance remained in
position.
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not
the wrist, be held before it touch the ground, although it be
hugged to the body of the catcher“Caught”
Notes on Law 22.
(See Notes on Law 32.)
The ball must not touch the ground before it is held ; but the hand
holding the ball may touch the ground in affecting the catch.
When a fieldsman catches a ball and falls and the ball touches the
ground, it is a question of fact for the Umpire to decide whether or not the
catch was completed before the ball touched the ground.
When a Batsman plays a ball on to the ground and in order to prevent
it hitting the wicket, after touching the ground, he strikes it again and the
ball is caught, the batsman is not out. But if he hit the ball a second time
before it touches the ground and is caught, he would be out under this Law.
A Batsman would be out if caught off a ball which before striking
the bat h id hit his pad.
If no boundaries have been arranged a Striker can be caught off a tree,
hedge, or building.
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched
by the bat or hand, the Striker be out of his ground, and the
wicket be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with
hand or arm with ball in hand “Stumped.”
Notes on Law 23
If the ball rebounds oft the pads or person of the wicket-keeper, without
having first touched the bat or hand of the Striker, and the Striker is out
of his ground the decision should be “Stumped,” and not “ Run Out.”
10
It is sufficient for the wicket-keeper to remove one bail in order to run
out or stump a batsman.
It would not be out if he were to knock the bails off with his foot, or
with an arm or hand not holding the ball.
24.—Or, if with part of his person he stops the ball, which in
the opinion of the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall have been
pitched in a straight line from it to the Striker’s wicket and would
have hit it‘‘Leg before wicket.”
Notes on Law 24.
A Batsman may be out lb w, although the bowler is bowling round the
wicket, if the case comes within this Law.
There arc three considerations which an Umpire must bear in mind :—
(1) Would the ball have hit the wicket? (2) Did it pitch in a straight line
between wicket and wicket ? (3) Was it part of the batsman’s person,
other than the hand, which intercepted the ball ? If these questions arc
answered in the affirmative the batsman would be out.
It is immaterial whether the ball breaks or not. It is sometimes only
possible for a bowler bowling round the wicket to obtain an 1 b w with a
breaking ball.
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with
his bat or any part of his person or dress “Hit Wicket.”
Notes on Law 25.
(Sec Law 16, Note 3.)
If in making a second stroke to keep a ball out of his wicket, the
Striker hit down his wicket as above he would be out.
A batsman would not be out for breaking the wicket either with his bat
or person when in the act of running.
If while playing at the ball, but not otherwise, the Striker’s hat or cap
fell on the wicket and dislodged a bail he would be out.
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either
of the batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught;—
“Obstructing the field.”
Note on Law 26.
It should be noted that it is the Striker who is out if this Law is
infringed.
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of his
person, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done for the
purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with his bat, or
any part of his person, except his hands ;^-“Hit the ball twice.”
11
Notes on Law 27.
It is for the Umpire to decide whether the ball has been struck
“ wilfully” for some purpose other than that of guarding the wicket. The
fact that a run is attempted may be evidence of the batsman’s intention to
take advantage of the second stroke and the Umpire is entitled to regard
it as such, but it is not conclusive.
If the ball has been lawfully struck twice and an overthrow is made the
batsmen are entitled to the runs which follow.
A Striker may be out for hitting the ball twice, although no run is
attempted. (See also Law 22, Note 3.)
Either Batsman is Out-
28.—If in running*, or at anv other time, when the b(,.| is in play Tho
he be out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down by the ball Batsman
after touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, 'fith ball in
hand, of any fieldsman ; “Run out.” But the Striker m.ay not be
out thus, unless the ball has touched the bat or hr’^, when, in
playing at a No-ball he be out of his ground and the'd“ket be put
down by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with had Or arm with
ball in hand.
Notes on Law 28.
(Sec Notes to Law 20.)
It would not be out if the striker hit the ball into the pposite wickets
—the other batsman being out of his ground—unless th ball had been
touched by a fieldsman after being hit and before striking ne wickets.
Either batsman can be “run out” at any time when thcball is in play
by any fieldsman, including the bowler (except as provided bove).
For a definition of “out of his ground” see Law ]9 and Totes.
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the balwhile in play,
unless at the request of the opposite side ;—“Handlecthe ball.”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman Obstructing
the field.”
Note on Law 30.
The Umpire must decide on the facts before him if the oltruction was
“wilful.”
31.—If the batsmen have crossed each other, he thacuns for
the wicket which is put down is out ; if they have not cnsed he
that has left the wicket which is put down is out.
32.—The Strikerbeing caught norun shall be scored, latsman
being run out, that run which was being attempted shH not be
scored.
Notes on Law 32.
( Sec Notes on Law 22.)
Although that run which is being attempted shall not be scorqt js not
the custom for the remaining batsman to resume his position at » wicket
he has left if he and his partner have crossed.
When a run has been made off a no-ball the no-ball should scored
although the ball has been caught.
12
33rt.—A Batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be
“Dead.”
336.—If the Bail, whether struck with the bat or not, lodges in
a Batsman’s Clothing, the ball shall become “Dead.”
Notes on Laws 33a and 33b.
A ball does not become “Dead” when the bails are off or the wickets
struck downer because an unsuccessful appeal has been made to the Umpire.
Lodging ii a batsman’s clothing includes practically all ways in which a
ball can be sail to lodge in or against his clothing.
(See Nd* on Law 34.)
The balldoes not become “Dead” on hitting the Umpire.
The bad ceases to be “Dead” when the bowler begins his run or
bowling actio..
.st Ball 34.—If a kill in play cannot be found or recovered, any Fieldsman
may call “Lst Ball,” when the ball shall be “Dead" ; six runs
shall be addd to the score ; but if more than six runs have been
run before “ost Ball" has been called, as many runs as have been
run shall be cored.
Note on Law 34.
A ball caronly become “Dead” under Laws 33<7, 33b, 34, 35, 41 & 50,
or on the call f a" boundary hit.
35.—Aftt the ball shall have been finally settled in the Wicket-
keeper’s orowler’s hand, it shall be “Dead” ; but when the Bowler
is about to sliver the ball, if the Batsman at his wicket be out of
his ground efore actual delivery, the said Bowler may run him out;
but if the Barter throw at that wicket and any run result, it shall
be scored *!o Ball.”
Notes on Law 35.
Whcthcihe ball is “finally settled” is a question of fact for the Umpire
only to dec/.
A bowl may run a Batsman out, without having delivered the ball, in
anyway auorized by the Laws. He may have passed the bowling crease
in his run may change the ball from one hand to the other before throwing
at the wict °r knocking off the bails. The bails may be knocked oft from
either sid<f the wickets.
36.—Batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return to it
to compte his innings after another has been in, without the
consentf the opposite side.
Substitute. 37.- substitute shall be allowed to field or run between
wicketor any player, who may during the match, be incapacitated
from ibss or injury, but for no other reason, except with the
conserof the opposite side.
13
Notes on Law 37.
It is well to remember that a side which loses a player’s services through
illness or injury, brought about during a match, is entitled to a substitute,
“it shall be allowed” whereas under other circumstances consent is necessary
which must depend upon the courtesy of the opposing Captain.
Many disputes would be avoided if the Captains, before tossing
exchanged lists of the players.
There is no law prohibiting a player from bowling because he has had a
substitute to run for him.
A side which has been short in the field may bat with its full number.
38.—In a’! cases where a substitute shall be allowed, ths
consent of the opposite side shall be obtained as to the person to
act as substitute, and the place in the field which he shall take.
39.	In case any substitute shall be allowed tc run between
wickets, the Striker may be run out if either he or his substitute
be out of his ground. If the Striker be out of his ground while the
bah is in play, that wicket which he has left may be put down and
the Striker given out, although the other batsman may have made
good the ground at that end, and the Striker and his substitute at
the other end.
Notes on Law 39.
The distinction between the words “Striker” and “Batsman” should be
appreciated. When the injured Batsman is not the Striker he is subject
only to such penalty under this Law as is incurred by his runner.
The intention of this Law is that the injured striker’s ground, when be
has a substitute to run for him, is at the wicket keeper’s end. He himself
can only be run out at that end as provided for in the latter part of the Law.
40.—A Batsman is liable to be out for any infringment of the
Laws by his substitute.
41.	—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person, Tlie
but if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be “Dead,” and Fieldsman.
five runs added to the score ; whatever runs may have been made,
five only shall be added.
Note on Law 41.
The “five runs” arc to be added to the runs already made when the
Fieldsman “wilfully” stopped the ball.
42.—The Wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket. If he
shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping, before it has
passed the wicket, or, if he shall incommode the Striker by any 1
noise, or motion, or if any part of his person be over or before the
wicket, the Striker shall not be out, excepting under Laws 26, 27,
28, 29 and 30.
Note on Law 42.
A Wicket-keeper may run a Batsman out by going in front of the
Wicket (Law 28) the Umpire must decide from the facts, if the act is legal.
43.—The Umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, of
the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light for play ; umpires
all disputes, shall be determined by them, and if they disagree the
actual state of things shall continue.
(See also Instructions to Umpires.)
14
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where
necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and change
ends after each side has had one innings.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each Striker to come in,
and ten minutes between each innings. When they shall call “Play”
the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
Notes on Law 45.
The Tn-goin<r Batsman should meet the out coming batsman before he
enters the Pavilion.
It is the duty of the Captains to see that this Law is strictly observed.
The effect of this Law is that the Umpire shah decide whether the delay
of the individual amounts to a refusal of the batting side to play. It pro-
vides a specific penalty in such a case but none for the individual.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to by
the other side.
N.B.- -An appeal, “How’s that?” covers all ways of being out (within
the jurisdiction of the Umpire appealed to), unless a specific way of getting
out is stated by the person asking.
47.—The Umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be appealed to
before the other Umpire in all cases, except in those of stumping,
hit wicket, run out at the Striker's wicket, or arising out of Law 42,
but in any case in which an Umpire is unable to give a decision, he
shall appeal to the other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
Note on Law 47.
When the Umpire at the. bowler’s wicket has given a Batsman “not
out” the other Umpire may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction,
subject to an observance of Law 50.
48.—If either Umpire be not satisfied of the absolute fairness of
the delivery of any ball, he shall call “No Ball.”
48".—The Umpire shall take especial care to call “No Ball”
instantly upon delivery; “Wide Ball” as soon as it shall have passed
the striker.
Note on Law 48 and 48".
If an Umpire has called “No Ball” when the ball has not been delivered
he should revoke his decision.
49.—If either batsman run a short run, the Umpire shall calf
“One short” and the run shall not be scored.
(See Notes under “The Batsman,” page 16.)
50.—After the Umpire has called “Over” the ball is “Dead,” but
an appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is out, such
appeal however shall not be made after the delivery of the next
ball, nor after any cessation of play.
Note on Law 50.
No act on the part of the fielding side can cause a batsman to be out
after the Umpire has called “Over,” but an appeal may be made within the
allotted time.
15
51.—No Umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No Umpire shall be changed during a match, unless with
the consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law 51;
then either side may dismiss him.
53.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in a three Following
days’ match, or by 100 runs in a two days' match, shall have the innings.
option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
54.—The In-side may declare their innings at an end in a three
days’ match, at any time on the second day ; in a two days’ match
the Captain of the batting side has power to declare his innings at
a close at any time ; but such declaration may not be made on the
first day later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the hour agreed
on for drawing stumps ; in a one day match at any time.
Notes on Law 54.
(Sec also Instructions to Umpires as to “declaring.”)
A declaration of a first innings does not preclude a second innings.
For the purpose of stating the result of a match, an innings declared at
an end is regarclcd as completed and the victory, if accomplished, is in runs
and not by wickets.
55.—Where there in no play on the first day of a three day
match Laws 53 and 54 shall apply as if the match were a two
day match, and if in a three day match there is no play on the
first two days, Laws 53, 54 and Law 1 ‘ one day matches ’ shall
apply as if the match were a one day match.
ONE DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which bats firstand leads by 75 runs shall have
the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
2.—The Match, unless played out, shall be decided by the First
Innings. Prior to the commencement of a match it may be
agreed :—that the Over consist of 5 or 6 balls.
N.B.—A tie is included in the words “played out.”
SINGLE WICKET.
The Laws are, where they apply, the same as the above, with the
following alterations and additions.
1 __One Wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a Bowling Stump
opposite to it, at a distance of twenty-two yards. The Bowling crease shall
be in a line with the bowling stump; and drawn according to Law 7.
2.—When there shall be less than five playci's on a side, Bounds shall be
placed twenty-two yards each in a line from the oft and leg stump.
3.—The ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the Striker t o "a
run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling stump or
crease in a line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them,
and return to the popping crease.
4.—When the Striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the
ground behind the popping crease, otherwise the Umpire shall call “No Hit,”
and no run shall be scored.
5.—When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither Byes,
Leg Byes, nor Overthrows shall be allowed, nor shall the Striker be caught
out behind the wicket, nor stumped.
6.—The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the ground
between the wicket and the bowling stump, or between the bowling stump
and the bounds ; the Striker may run till the ball be so returned.
7.—After the Striker shall have made one run, if he start again he must
touch the bowling stump or crease, and turn before the ball cross the
ground to entitle him to another.
S.—The Striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the
same number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with
any part of his person.
9.—When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall
be no bounds. All Hits, Byes, Leg Byes, and Overthrows shall then be
allowed.
10.—There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled in Overs,
but no more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
THE BATSMAN.
When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some other
unavoidable cause his innings must be counted as “ Not out.”
A Side which has fielded with ten men, or less, may bat with its full
strength provided no disqualification rule applies.
When a short run is called it is not customary for the batsmen to cross
over to the positions they would have been in if the run had not been
attempted.
17
THE BOWLER.
There is no objection to the howlers’ footholes being filled up with
sawdust, though the game be not actually in progress.
(Sec Instructions to Umpires.)
It some times happens that the bowler will lift the seam of the ball in
order to obtain a better hold. This is not legitimate. The ball, in such a
case, should be shown to the Umpire who should call for a new ball and
warn the Captain that the practice is unfair.
A bowler can bowl round and over the wicket in the same over ; but ho
should give the batsman an opportunity of taking a fresh guard. The same
remarks apply to a change from over to under arm bowling, or wee versa.
THE BOUNDARY.
(See Notes to Law 2.)
If a ball hit or pass over or through the boundary or is carried over it
by the fieldsman the Umpire should call a boundary hit, but a fieldsman
may lean against the boundary to catch or field a ball, and if a fieldsman
when standing within the playing ground, even though he be touching the
boundary, catch a ball outside the boundary the batsman should be given
out.
When the ball touches the boundary it becomes “ Dead.”
The Umpire is not a boundary.
It is for the Umpire to decide if a hit has reached the boundary.
If a seat or other obstacle is placed in the playing ground, within
boundaries, and such obstacle is struck by the ball it cannot be regarded
as a boundary unless so arranged by the Umpires.
UMPIRES.
(See also instructions to Umpires.)
An Umpire should stand where he can clearly sec the act upon which
his decision may be required.
Umpires should not call “Time” before the Over is finished unless
a wicket fall within two minutes of “Time.” (See Law 45.)
At the endofan over the Umpire at the bowler’s wicket should distinctly
call “over” before leaving the wicket.
The responsibility of supervising the rolling of the pitch before play
will, in the first place, rest with the Umpires.
Umpires arc not obliged to stand near the wicket in order to supervise
the rolling.
It is not the scorers business to dictate to the Umpire. The Umpire
should direct the scorer what to record.
IS
U M PI R ES—continued.
An Umpire may alter his decision if in the hurry of the moment or by
a slip of the tongue he has given a wrong one ; provided that such alteration
is made promptly.
It is not part of an Umpire’s duty to call back a batsman who is leaving
the wicket under a misapprehension : But the Umpire should try and
prevent such misapprehension by “calling” distinctly and by giving the
proper signal.
The Umpires should agree Ijctween themselves, before play, what watch
or clock they shall follow in deciding intervals and close of play.
Save as provided by the Laws the Umpires have no right to interfere
in the progress of the game except on appeal.
As to finishing an over see Note to Law 13.
There is a local rule on many grounds that a new batsman does not go
in if a wicket fall within five minutes of time.
Umpires should inform the batsmen when a new ball is about to be used.
INSTRUCTIONS TO UMPSRES.
FITNESS OF GROUND.
Law 43.—At the commencement of a Match, the Umpires may be
appealed to by either side as to the fitness of the Ground for play.
Should they not agree, play will not commence until they are agreed.
In case of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has ceased, the
Umpires shall, immediately, without further instruction, inspect the wicket,
unaccompanied by any of the players, and decide upon its fitness. Should
it prove unfit, they shall continue to inspect at intervals, until they decide
that it is fit for play, when they shall call upon the players to resume
the game.
The ground is unfit for play—when water stands on the surface, or
when it is so wet, muddy, or slippery as to deprive the bowlers of a
reasonable foothold, or the fieldsmen of the power of free movement.
The Umpires are not to be biassed by the opinions of either side, still
less are they to allow themselves to be influenced by the impatience of the
spectators for a resumption of the game, and arc not to be induced, by the
public interest in a particular match, to declare thfc ground fit for play,
unless they would consider that Ground fit under any circumstances.
It is the duty of Umpires appointed by the Captains of the firstand
second class Counties to report to the Secretary M.C.C. any case, on or oft
the field, of a player criticising or showing resentment to the decision of an
Umpire. The Umpires, arc, however, required to give notice to the
Captains during the match that it is their intention to make a report.
19
FITNESS OF LIGHT FOR PLAY.
The Umpires may decide, on appeal from the Captains, should the lattoi
disagree, that there is not sufficient light for Play. Should the light
improve before the time for drawing stumps, they shall, without waiting
for instructions, call upon the players to resume the game.
In the event of the Captains agreeing as to the condition of the ground
or light, the Umpires will, so far, be relieved of their responsibility.
Law 47.—An Umpire in only justified in appealing to the other Umpire
when he is unable to decide, owing to his having been prevented from seeing
the occurance on which the appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the
other Umpire in cases on which he could give a decision, merely because he
is unwilling to give that decision. If he be in any doubt, the principle laid
down in Law 43, “That the existing state of things shall continue,” shall be
followed, and in consequence, the decision should be in favour of the
batsman.
Law 4S.—The special attention of Umpires is called to this Law, which
directs them to call “ No Ball,” unless absolutely satisfied of the fairness of
the delivery.
Umpires should not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by appeals
from such of the field who were not in a position to form a judgment on
the point appealed upon, or by tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on
appealing for a catch at the wicket, without waiting for the decision.
Umpires being the sole judges of fair or unfair play, should remember that
such devices are obviously unfair, and are not in accordance with the spirit
in which ciieket should be played.
Umpires are not justified in deciding the ground unfit for play merely
because the grass is wet and the ball would, in consequence, be slippery.
In order to facilitate plav at the earliest possible moment in wet weather
the Umpire shall sec that the foot holes made by the bowlers and batsmen
arc cleaned out, dried, and filled up with sawdust at any time during the
match, although the game is not actually in progress.
Umpires should see that there is no infringement of Law 5. When in
doubt as to the width of a bat they should use the gauge.
All Umpires shall report themselves to the Manager of the Ground half
an hour before the commencement of each day’s play and they shall make a
point of seeing that the wickets, bats and balls are in accordance with the
Laws of the game and they must remember that the conduct of the game
and the state of the ground is within their jurisdiction.
The interval for luncheon shall be 40 minutes. In the event of the last
wicket falling within two minutes of the time arranged for luncheon the
game shall be resumed at the usual hour, no allowance being made for the
ten minutes between the innings.
Umpires shall allow six runs for all hits that drop over and clear of the
boundaiy line or fence.
TtfEW BALL.
After 200 runs have been made with a ball the fielding side can demand
a new one.
All Cricket balls used in County Cricket matches should be submitted
to and approved by the Captains of the competing sides before the matches
begin.
Trial balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, be not allowed in First
Class Matches.
20
DECLARING
(See Law 54.)
(a) If a side declare its innings during the luncheon interval, it must
do so within fifteen minutes after the commencement of such interval
otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(n) If a side declare its innings closed in the morning before play
commences,it must do so in sufficient time to enable the other side to choose
the roller it prefers, otherwise an extra ten minutes will be allowed for rolling.
CODE OE SIGNALLING.
Boundaries shall be signalled by waving the hand from side to side.
Byes shall be signalled by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg-byes shall be signalled by raising the leg and touching it with the
hand.
Wides shall be signalled by extending both arms horizontally.
No-Balls shall be signalled by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “Out” shall be signalled by raising the index finger above
the head.
Umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by the scorer
before allowing the game to proceed.
Besides signalling, the Umpire should “call” distinctly for the infor-
mation of the players.
On giving a decision the Umpire should make sure that the batsman
understands what the decision is.
RULES OF COUMTY CROCKET.
Registration—That previous to the commencement of each cricket
season each County shall send to the M.C.C. and shall circulate to each
County a list of the cricketers who, it is anticipated, will play for the County
that season with their respective qualifications ; and if in the course of the
season a County wishes to play someone not registered as above, his name
shall be registered in a similar manner, within seven days after his first
County Match.
A cricketer may not play for more than one County within the
Calendar Year. The penalty for a infringement of this rule to be dis-
qualification for two years. A British Colony, Dependency or State, shall,
for the puipose of this rule, be regarded as a County.
2.—Qualification by Birth.—A cricketer is always eligible to play
for the county of his birth.
Note.
Although a cricketer can always return to the county of his birth,
subject to Bule I.) it is expedient as an act of courtesy, to give notice to the.
county for which he has had a residential qualification if he intends to leave it.
21
3.—Qualification by Residence.—A cricketer is qualified to play for
any county in which he has resided for the previous 24 months and is
residing but :—
(a) The mere acquirement or hiring of a tenement, unless used as a
bona fide home, does not constitute “ residence.”
(b) The occupation of a tenement during the cricket season only does
not constitute “ residence.”
Note.
A residential qualification cannot be obtained through a School or
University unless such School or University has also been the home.
4.—Where a cricketer uses as residences in the course of the year,
tenements in more than one county, or where he leaves the country for the
winter months, and in all other cases where his qualification is in any doubt,
it is obligatory on the county for which he wishes to play to prove his
qualification to the satisfaction of the M.C.C.
5.—A cricketer who has played for a county for five successive years is
qualified to play for that county for the rest of his cricket career, or until
he plays for some other county.
Note.
This does not include a cricketer who has resided in but has not played
for a county.
G.—A cricketer may play for the county for which he has acquired a
residential qualification, for two successive years immediately after he has
ceased to reside in such county.
7.—Any person who has played for a county under the residential
qualification and is abroad shall retain his qualification on his return to
that County as if he had never been abroad—provided that he has not
represented any British Colony, Dependency or State during his absence.
8.—Transfers.—2k cricketer, already qualified for, or engaged by, a
county but wishing to qualify by residence for another county, must give
notice in writing to the Cricket Club Committee of the former county before
he commences such residence ; and a County Cricket Club wishing to engage,
under a residential qualification, a cricketer who is already qualified for.
or engaged by, another County Chib, must inform the committee of the
latter before commencing negotiations with the cricketer.
Note.
This rule includes a cricketer who has never played for a county.
9.—Appeal.—Should any question arise under these rules it shall be
left to the decision of the M.C.C. Committee which shall be final, and in
the event of an infringement of Rule 8, the M.C.C. Committee shall have
special authority to fix the date when the cricketer shall become qualified
by residence or even to permanently bar his so qualifying.
Note.
Those rules so far as they arc not inconsistent with the Minor Counties
Cricket Association Rules, hereinafter mentioned, apply also to the Minor
Counties.
For purposes of county cricket, county boundaries are not affected by
the Local’Government Act, 18S8.
•70
CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTIES.
Cricketing counties shall be considered as belonging to first-class or
second-class. There is no necessity for further sub-division.
First-class counties are those whose matches, with one another, with
M.C.C. and Ground, with the Universities, with the Australians, and such
other elevens as shall be adjudged “first-class matches” by the M.C.C.
Committee, are used in compilation of first-class batting and bowling
averages.
Second-class Counties are those not included in the first-class and second
elevens of first-class counties.
There shall be no limit to the number of first or second-class
counties. The M.C.C. Committee may bring new counties into the list,
may remove existing ones from it or may do both.
THE COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIP.
FIRST CLASS.
After the close of each cricket season the Committee of the M.C.C. shall
decide the county championship.
Tt shall be competed for by first-class counties. No county shall be
eligible unless it shall have played at least eight out and home matches
with other counties*
Five points shall be scored for a win in a completed match. Should a
match not be completed, the side leading on the first innings shall score
three points and its opponents one point. In the event of a tie the points
shall be divided. Matches, in which no result on the first innings shall have
been attained, shall not be included in the table of results.**
*This number has, on several occasions, when the Australians have
visited this Country, been reduced by the M.C.C.
**Passed by Advisory County Cricket Committee on April 26th, 1911, and
confirmed by M.C.C. Committee.
MINOR COUNTY CRICKET
ASSOCIATION RULES.
1.—The Association shall be called “The Minor Counties’ Cricket
Association.”
2.—All Counties not in the First-Class, as classified by the M.C.C., and
the 2nd Elevens of First-Class Counties shall be eligible to join the Associa-
tion and shall be entitled to compete in the 2nd Division of the County
Championship (the Minor Counties’ Competition).
3.—The Annual Meeting shall be held at Lord’s, on the same day as
the Annual Meeting of County Secretaries.
23
4.—A Special Meeting shall be called by the Hon. Secretary at the
request of four or more Counties. One month’s notice of every such meet-
ing shall be sent to each County, and the notice shall contain the agenda of
the Meeting.
5.—The Hon. Secretary and the Committee shall be elected annually at
the Annual Meeting. The Committee shall consist of one representative
each from six of the Counties, with the Hon. Secretary of the Association.
G.—Only one representative from each County shall be entitled to vote
at General Meetings of the Association.
7.—Notices of Motions to be brought forward at the Annual Meeting
shall be sent to the Hon. Secretary before the end of October.
8.—A County desirous of entering the Competition for the first time
shall give notice to the Hon. Secretary before the end of the previous
August.
9.—The Counties shall be grouped into two Divisions according to their
geographical positions.
JO.—Every County shall play out and home two-day Matches with
at least four other Counties in its Division.
11.—The Counties which shall have obtained in their respective
Divisions the greatest proportionate number of points shall play a three-day
Final Match ; and the winner of the Final Match shall be reckoned
Champion County of the 2nd Division.
12.—If two or more Counties at the top of either Division shall have
obtained the same proportion of points, preference shall be given to that
County which shall have won the greatest number of completed matches.
13.—If two or more Counties at the top of either Division shall have
obtained the same proportion of points and also won the same number of
completed matches, the headship of the Division shall be decided according
to the nett batting averages.
14.—ff the two Counties at the top of either Division shall not have
played each other, the second County shall have the right to challenge the
first to a two-day match, which shall decide the headship of the Division
and shall be played on aground clnscn by the challenged County. If no
result shall have been attained in this match, the headship of the Division
shall be decided as if there had been no challenge.
15.—The Final Match shall be played upon a Ground to be agreed upon
by the Counties engaged. If they fail to agree, the Secretary of the M.C.C.
shall decide which County shall have choice of ground.
1G.—the Final Match, and also in any challenge match under Rule
14, each County shall bear its own expenses and shall receive half the
gross gate-money, after deducting the fees paid to the Umpires.
17.—Points in the competition shall be reckoned as follows Five
points shall be scored for a win in a completed Match. Should the
Match not be completed, the side leading on the First Innings shall score
three points and its opponents one point. In the event of a tie the points
shall be divided. Matches in which no result on the 1st innings shall have
been attained shall not be included in the Table of Results.

21
IS.—Neutral Umpires shall be provided for all Matches in the competition,
and the arrangements for the selection and appointment of such Umpires
shall be left to the Secretary of the M.C.C.
19.—Matches in the Competition shall commence not later than 11.30
on the first day and 11 o’clock on the second and third days.
20.—The result of each match in the Competition shall be telegraphed
to the lion. Secretary by the home County immediately upon its conclusion.
21.—Every County shall, immediately after its last home match, send to
the l ion. Secretary the full score (with bowling analysis) of each of its home
matches ; ami this shall for all purposes be deemed the official score.
22.—All disputes arising out of the Laws of the Game shall be referred
to the M.C.C., whose decisions shall be final.
23.—Should any matter arise not provided for in these Rules, the
Committee shall have power to deal with it.
24.—Except where they are inconsistent with the foregoing, the Rules
governing the matches of the 1st Division of the County Championship
shall apply.
25.—These Rules shall not be altered except at a General Meeting of
the Association.
ADVISORY COUNTY CR3GKET
COMMITTEE.
In 1904, with the approval of the Counties, the M.C.C.
formed an Advisory County Cricket Committee to consider
cases arising out of County and other Cricket.
RULES.
].—The Advisory County Cricket Committee shall consist of a represen-
tative of each First Class County, appointed by his Committee, and three
members representing and appointed by the Minor Counties Cricket
Association and at least one member of the M.C.C.
2.—The Chairman of this Committee shall be the President of the
M.C.C. ; or some ot her member of the Committee of the M.C.C. nominated
by him, or in default of such nomination, by the Committee of the M.C.C.
3.—All resolutions passed by this Committee shall be submitted to
the M.C.C. Committee for confirmation.
4.—A meeting may be convened either by five, or more, First Class
Counties ; or by the Minor Counties Cricket Association and two, or more.
First Class Counties ; or by the M.C.C., and notice shall be sent to all
parties interested at least 14 days before the day of meeting.
5.—The notice shall contain an agenda of the meeting. Notice of an
amendment to a resolution on the agenda must be given, at least, one week
before the day of meeting.
25
Board of Control of “ Test ” Matches at Home
(Formed at the request of the Counties, by the M.C.C., in ISOS.)
To consist of the President of the M.C.C. (in the chair), five of its Club
Committee, and one representative from each of the ten First Class Counties
that came out at the top of the last season’s list.
The constitution of the Board to remain unchanged until after the accounts
of the season have been passed.
1.—In all Test matches play shall begin on the first day at 11.30 a.m. p>ay-
on the second and third days at 11 a.m. Stumps shall be drawn at 6.30 p in.
2.—The Umpires shall be appointed by Ballot and shall be paid £10 Umpires,
per match.
3.—All moneys taken at Stands and Enclosures at the Test Matches Distribution
shall, together with the Gate Money in respect thereof, less the Opponents of Proflt8-
half of tlie gross Gate Money and less such expenses as arc authorized by
the Board, be placed in the hands of the Board for distribution as follows :
30 per cent, to the grounds where the matches arc played, in equal shares;
10 per cent, to the Counties that take part in the Second Division of the
County Championship ; and GO per cent, to be divided equally among the
First Class Counties and the M.C.C. But should there be a loss on these
matches, such loss shall be divided among the said First and Second Class
Counties and the M.C.C. in the proportion of their respective interests.
4.—A Sub-Committee of three shall be appointed by the Board to select Selection
England teams. Such Sub-Committee shall appoint a Chairman, who Sub-Committee
shall have a casting vote. The said Committee of three shall in each match
select the Captain.
5.—Two Trustees shall be appointed to whom all payments subject to Trustees.
distribution, as aforesaid, should be made.
6.—No collection shall be allowed on any ground during a Test Match. Collections.
7.—The expenses to be deducted from the Gross Gate Money (or in Test Expenses
Matches between Australia and South Africa from the Stand Money) shall
include Players (including reserve men) Police, Umpires. Scorers, Gate and
Ground Attendants, Printing, Advertising, Luncheons, Match Balls and any
other items specially sanctioned by the Board.
8.—The remuneration of players shall be £20 per match. ; of reserve Players.
men £10.
9.__Amateurs’ expenses to be allowed arc railway fares and a sum at Amateurs
the rate of 30s. per diem, not exceeding five days for each match.
10 .—The amount to be allowed for luncheon will be £10 per diem. Luncheons.
IL—Scorers shall be paid £5 per match.
12.—The sum to be allowed for advertising shall not exceed £30 for each Advertising.
match.
13#__There will be a tea interval at 4.30 p.m. daily, during the Test Tea Interval.
Matches, unless at that time 9 wickets of the batting side have fallen, or an
interval has occurred since luncheon. In the event of there being no
interval, drinks can be sent out on the field at the request of the Captain
of the fielding side.
14.—Umpires should inform the batsman when a new ball is about to
to be used.
26
IMPERIAL CRICKET CONFERENCE.
An Imperial Cricket Conference was held at Lord’s, on July 20th, 1909,
composed of representatives of the M.U.C., the Australian Board of
Control and the South African Cricket Association, when the following
Rules for Test Matches were passed :—
Rules for Test Matches.
1.—Test Matches are those played between Representative Elevens of
England and of Australia and of South Africa, also between Elevens of
Australia and South Africa.
2.—A Cricketer who has played in a Test Match for a Country cannot
play for any other Country without the consent of each of the contracting
parties.
3.—Qualification by Birth.—A Cricketer, unless debarred by
Rule 2, is always eligible to play for the Com try of his birth.
4.—Qualification by Residence.—A Cricketer, unless debarred by
1 ------nlay for any Country in which he is residing and has
in the 4 years immediately preceding and thereafter
I to play for that Country.