L i ftiWy
16th Edition.
by

THE
LAWS
OF CRICKET
OFFICIAL
London :
I Printed by the Marylebone Cricket Club,
1939.
All Rights Reserved.
Price: NINEPENCE POST FREE.
THE LAWS OF CRICKET,
with
DECISIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
AUTHORIZED . BY THE M.C.C.
together with
RULES
of the following bodies :
Imperial Cricket Conference,
Board of Control of Test Matches at Home,
Advisory County Cricket Committee,
Minor Counties’ Cricket Association.
CONTENTS.
Page
Preface................................... 2
Laws of Cricket .. .. 3
One-Day Matches .. 18
Single Wicket .. .. 19
Notes for Scorers and Umpires 20
Regulations for drying Wickets in England 21
Imperial Cricket Conference .. 22
Board of Control of Test Matches at Home 23
Advisory County Cricket Committee 26
Classification of Counties .. 27
The County Championship 27
Rules of County Cricket .. 27
Minor Counties’ Cricket Association 3)
Index .. . .. .. .. 33
PREFACE
During the last two hundred years the conduct of the game of Cricket has
been governed by a series of Codes of Laws. These Codes were established
as indicated below, and were at all times subject to additions and alterations
ordained by the governing authorities of the time. Since its formation in 1787 the
Marylcbone Cricket Club has been recognised as the sole authority for drawing
up the Code and for all subsequent alterations.
There is little doubt that Cricket was subject to recognised rules as early as
1700, though the earliest known Code is that drawn up in 1744 by certain Noble-
men and Gentlemen who used the Artillery Ground in London. These Laws
were revised in 1755 by “ Several Cricket-Clubs, particularly that of the Star and
Garter in Pall-Mall.”
The next arrangement was produced by “ a Committee of Noblemen and
Gentlemen of Kent, Hampshire, Surry, Sussex, Middlesex and London,” at the
Star and Garter on February 25th, 1774, and this in turn was revised by a similar
body in February 1786.
On May 30th, 1788, the first M.C.C. Code was adopted, and remained in force
until May 19th, 1835, when a new Code of Laws was approved by the Committee.
The Laws appear to have been first numbered in 1828.
The 1835 Code, amended in detail from time to time, stood until the 21st April,
1884, when the present one was adopted at a Special General Meeting of the M.C.C.
Under the Rules of the Marylcbone Cricket Club the Laws of Cricket can
only be changed by the vote of two thirds of the members present and voting at a
Special General Meeting, of which due notice is required to be given.
From time to time the Committee of the M.C.C. arc required to give interpre-
tations on points of difficulty arising from the Laws, and these arc given in the
form of notes to the Laws themselves.
This sixteenth edition of the Laws of Cricket, etc., is rendered necessary by
changes in the Laws of the game, in the Rules governing International and County
Cricket, and by additions to the notes, interpretations and other details.
The opportunity has been taken of improving the reference value of the
publication by the inclusion of an Index, and by the lettering and sub-division of
the notes to the Laws. These changes, however, have not in any way affected
the primary purpose of the book as expressed by Sir Francis Lacey (Secretary of
the M.C.C. from 1898 to 1926) in the previous editions
"The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties, which arc known to
exist, although they are not always apparent. Hundreds of cases are sent to the
M.C.C. for decision every year. It is from this source that the chief difficulties
have become manifest. Saturday and League Matches arc especially productive
of disputes, and it is hoped that those who read these notes may find an answer
to any doubt which may arise as to the proper interpretation of the Laws of
Cricket.”
R. S. RAIT KERR,
Secretary, M.C.C.
Lord’s Cricket Ground •
London. N.W.8.
1*7 March. 1939.
3
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
As Revised by the Marylebone Cricket Club,
together with
Authorized Decisions and Interpretations.
(The Laws us given were originally brought into operation by the decision of a
Special General Meeting of the M.C.C. on 21st April, 1884. The dates of
all subsequent alterations arc stated immediately below each Law.)
THE GAME.
1.—A Match is played between two sides of eleven players each,
unless otherwise agreed to ; each side has two innings, taken
alternately, except in the case provided for in Law 53. The choice
of innings shall be decided by tossing.
RUNS.
2.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored :—
1st—So often as the Batsmen, after a hit, or at any time
while the ball is in play, shall have crossed, and made
good their ground from end to end.
2nd—For penalties under Laws 16, 34, 41, and allowances
under 44.
Any run or runs so scored shall be duly recorded by scorers
appointed for the purpose.
The side which scores the greatest number of runs wins the
match. No match is won unless played out or given up, except in
the case provided in Law 45.
NOTES.
(a)	Neither side can be compelled to continue after'the match is finished.
(See also Law 13, Note (<•).)
(b)	A " tie ” match is one in which the scores arc equal when “ time ’’ has
been reached, but only if the match has been played out or if the side to bat last
has commenced that innings.
In onc-day matches a “ tic ” can only apply to the first innings result if the
match has not been carried to a further conclusion.
APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES.
3.—Before the commencement of the match two Umpires shall
be appointed ; one for each end.
(Sec Law 43.)
NOTES.
(n) It should be noted, especially in lower grade matches, that umpires are
appointed “ one for each end ” and not one for each side.
(d) An umpire should stand where he can clearly sec the act upon which his
decision may be required.
An umpire wishing to stand on the off side of the wicket instead of the leg side
should obtain the permission of the captain of the fielding side.
(c)	Umpires shall agree between themselves, before play, what watch or clock
they will follow in deciding intervals and close of play.
(d)	Save as provided by the Laws, the umpires have no right to interfere in
the progress of the game except on appeal, or under the provision of Law 43,
Note (a) (i).
(c)	All umpires shall report themselves to the Manager of the ground 30
minutes before the commencement of each day’s play and they shall make a point
of seeing that the wickets, bats and balls arc in accordance with the Laws of the
game (using measuring tapes and gauges if necessary), and they must remember
that the conduct of the game and the state of the ground is within their jurisdiction.
(/) It is not the scorer’s business to dictate to the umpire. The umpire shall
direct the scorer what to record.
4
THE BALL.
4.—The Ball shall weigh not less than five ounces and a half,
nor more than five ounces and three-quarters. It shall measure not
less than eight and thirteen-sixtccnths inches, nor more than nine
inches in circumference. At the beginning of each innings either
side mav demand a new ball.
(.Revised 4th May, 1927.)
(See also Law 3, Note (e).)
NOTES.
(a)	In the event of the umpires agreeing that a ball in use is unfit for play
they shall have power to allow another ball (as much as possible like the one
discarded) to be substituted.
(6) After 200 runs have been made with a ball in First-class or Minor County
matches, the fielding side can demand a new one. This regulation is optional
in other grades of cricket. The umpires shall inform the batsmen when a new
ball is about to be used.
(c) All cricket balls used in County cricket matches should be submitted
to and approved by the captains of the competing sides before the matches begin.
THE BAT.
5.—The Bat shall not exceed four inches and one-quarter in the
widest part ; it shall not be more than thirty-eight inches in length.
(Sec also Law 3, Note (e).)
THE WICKETS.
,6.—-The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each
other at a distance of twenty-two yards. Each wicket shall be not
less than eight inches nor more than nine inches in width, and consist
of three stumps, with two bails upon the top. The stumps shall be
of equal and of sufficient size to prevent the ball from passing
through, not less than twenty-seven inches nor more than twenty-
eight inches out of the ground. The bails shall be each not less than
four inches nor more than four inches and a half in length, and when
in position, on the top of the stumps, shall not project more than
half-an-inch above them. The wickets shall not be changed during
a match, unless the ground between them become unfit for play,
and then only by consent of both sides.
(Revised 6th May, 1931.)
(See also Law 3, Note (c).)
NOTES.
(a)	In all First-class cricket and in all matches in which teams selected by
governing bodies of Cricket are engaged, each wickci shall be nine inches in
width, the stumps twenty-eight inches out of the ground and the bails four inches
and a half in length.
(b)	The use of stumps with metal heads or fittings is a source of danger, and
though permissible should not be encouraged.
(c)	In a high wind, the captains may agree, with the approval of the umpires,
to dispense with the use of bails, in which case Law 20 must be modified.
THE BOWLING CREASE.
7.—The Bowling crease shall be in a line with the stumps ;
eight feet eight inches in length ; the stumps in the centre ; with a
Return crease at each end, at right angles behind the wicket.
(Revised 7th May, 1902.)
NOTE
(a)	The Return crease is shortened for convenience. It must be deemed
unlimited in length.
5
THE POPPING CREASE.
8.—The Popping crease shall be marked four feet from the
wicket, parallel to it, and be deemed unlimited in length.
NOTE.
(«) The distance shall be four feet from the centre of the stumps to the inside
edge of the Popping crease.
THE GROUND.
9.—The Ground shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown, or
beaten during a match, except before the commencement of each
innings and of each day’s play, when, unless the In-Side object, the
ground shall be swept and roiled for not more than seven minutes.
This shall not prevent the batsman from beating the ground with
his bat, nor the batsmen nor bowler from using sawdust in order to
obtain a proper foothold.
(Revised 6th May, 1931.)
• NOTES.
(a)	(i) Prior to tossing for innings, the executive of the ground on which
a match is to be played is responsible for the selection and preparation of the
wicket.
(li) The batting side has a right to have the ground swept and rolled for not
more than seven minutes immediately before the commencement of each, day’s
play. It is the duty of the captain to sec that his side obtain this advantage. The
ground in this Law means the “ pitch.’’ The responsibility of supervising the
rolling of the pitch before play will in the first place rest with the umpires, who,
however, arc not obliged to stand near the wicket in order to supervise the rolling.
which must be completed so as to allow the play to commence at the stipulated
time.
(b)	In week-end starts the wicket shall be mown, under the supervision of the
umpires, on the first day on which the match is resumed.
(c)	Before and after the actual commencement of play the ground may be
protected when necessary, and shall be protected every night during the cont-
inuation of a match, but the covering shall be removed each morning, if fine,
at 7 o’clock. The covering must not protect more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the
Popping crease.
(</) In order to facilitate play at the earliest possible moment in wet weather
the umpires shall see that the foot holes made by the bowlers and batsmen are
cleaned out, dried, and filled up with sawdust at any time during the match,
although the game is not actually in progress.
ADDITIONAL LAW FOR AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH AFRICA.
9*.—In the event of rain falling on any day after the commence-
ment of a Match prior to or during the currency of that day’s play
the groundman shall cause the wicket to be swept and rolled for not
more than ten minutes after the close of that day’s play, at any time
before the commencement of the next day's play, whenever he is of
the opinion that such rolling will improve the wicket, and he will use
such roller, after consultation with the two captains, as he thinks
best calculated to produce that effect. This sweeping and rolling
shall not affect the right to sweep and roll provided for in Law 9 of
the Laws of Cricket.
(Introduced 3rd May, 1922. Application extended to New Zealand
7th May, 1924, and to South Africa 2nd May, 1928.)
NOTE.
(a)	In all First-class matches, and whenever possible in other cases, the
executive of the ground will appoint a responsible officer to supervise an) rolling
carried out under Law 9’.
6
THE BOWLERS.
“ NO BALL.”
10.—The Ball must be bowled ; if thrown or jerked either
Umpire shall call “ No Ball.”
(Revised 30th October, 1899.)
NOTE.
(a)	It is a " No Ball ” if, when about to deliver the ball, the bowler, seeing
the striker out of his ground, throws the ball at the striker’s wicket.
11.—The Bowler shall deliver the Ball with one foot on the
ground behind the Bowling crease, and within the Return crease,
otherwise the Umpire shall call “ No Ball.”
NOTES.
(a)	A bowler may bowl with both feet behind the Bowling crease provided
that one foot is within the Return crease. When part of the bowler’s back foot
is grounded on or outside the Return crease the umpire shall call “ No Ball,”
unless the other foot is behind the Bowling crease and within the Return crease.
One foot must be grounded behind the Bowling and within the Return crease
when the ball is delivered.
(b)	If a bowler knock the wicket with his foot in delivering the ball and
remove a bail or bails such act docs not in itself justify an umpire in calling
” No Ball.”
(c)	Many bowlers deliver the ball with the toe of the back foot pointing
towards the near wicket, and with the heel towards and over the Return crease.
If the bowler so delivers the ball with the heel on the ground, the umpire shall
“ No Ball ” him, the foot not being entirely within the Return crease. If he
delivers with the heel raised off the ground and keeps that part of his foot which
is on the ground within the Return crease the delivery is allowed as fair.
(</) If the bowler in running up to deliver the ball allows it to slip from his
hand before delivery, the umpire, at his discretion, may allow him to bowl again
without penalty or interference.
(c) The umpire in this Law refers to the umpire at the bowler’s wicket.
‘‘WIDE BALL.”
12.—If the Bowler shall bowl the Ball so high over or so wide of
the wicket, that in the opinion of the Umpire, it is not within reach
of the Striker, the Umpire shall call “ Wide Ball.”
NOTES.
(«) The test for the umpire to apply in deciding if the ball is wide is whether
it is within reach of the striker.
When a ball has been delivered but remains stationary before reaching the
striker no runs can be added to the score, unless it has been struck by the striker.
The striker has a right to hit the ball without interference by the field. The
umpire must decide if the ball has been ** delivered.”
(b)	If the striker hit a ball which has been called “ Wide ” the call shall be
ignored.
(c)	When only one run has been made front a “ Wide Ball ” the batsmen
do not cross over to the positions they were in before the run was made.
(d)	When a “ Wide ” is called the ball does not on that account become
“dead ” and the batsman may be out under Laws 23, 25, 28, 29 and 30.
‘‘THE OVER.”
13.—The Ball shall be bowled in Overs of six balls from each
wicket alternately. When six balls have been bowled, and the ball
is finally settled in the Bowler’s or Wicket-keeper’s hands, the
Umpire shall call “ Over.” Neither a “ No Ball ” nor “ Wide Ball ”
shall be reckoned as one of the “ Over.”
(For Australia and New Zealand only, in lines 1 and 2 for “ six” substitute
” eight.”)
Revised 1st May. 1889 ; 2nd May, 1900 ; 3rd May, 1922 : 7th May, 1924.)
1
NOTES.
(«) It is customary for the umpire to call " Over ” after the last ball of the
over, when it is clear that both sides are satisfied to consider the ball as “dead,”
even though it has not finally settled in the bowler’s or wicket-keeper's hands.
(6) This Law should be read with Law 16, in which, though provision is made
that the striker may obtain runs from a “No Ball,” the fact remains that neither
a “ No Ball ” nor “ Wide Ball ” shall be reckoned as one of the over.
Although not counted in the over, “ No Balls ” and “ Widcs ” shall be recorded
in their proper place on the score sheet.
(c) A ball shall not count as one of the over nor shall any runs be scored in
the following circumstances :—
(i)	If both bails have been blown of! the striker’s wicket before he plays
his stroke.
(ii)	If the bowler in running up to deliver the ball allows it to slip from
his hand before delivery.
(J) It is the umpire’s and not the scorer’s duty to call “ Over.”
At the end of an over the umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall distinctly call
“Over” before leaving the wicket.
(c) (i) An over should always be begun if “ lime " has not been reached
and the umpires shall not call “Time” before the over is finished except as hereafter
provided. ,
An over should always be finished, unless a wicket fall within two minutes
of “ time ” (sec Law 45), or unless there is a local rule extending the time.
(n) If a wicket fall within two minutes of “time” the umpires shall call
“ Time,” unless the incoming batsman claims his right to bat for the time re-
maining. If a wicket fall after "time” has been reached the umpires shall call
“ Time.”
(/) If a bowler is injured so that he cannot finish the over he has begun, the
over shall be regarded as completed.
(g) A bowler can bowl round and over the wicket in the same over ; but he
shall give the batsman an opportunity of taking a fresh guard. The same remarks
apply to a change from over to underarm bowling, or vice versa.
The umpire is justified in calling “ No Ball ” in the event of contravention of
this instruction.
CHANGING ENDS.
14.—The Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as he
pleases, provided only that he does not bowl two Overs consecutively
in one innings. 1« May. 1889.)
15.—The Bowler may require the Batsman at the wicket from
which he is bowling to stand on that side of it which he may direct.
SCORING OF “NO BALLS’’ AND “ WIDES.’’
16.—The Striker may hit a “ No Ball,’’ and whatever runs result
shall be added to his score ; but he shall not be out from a “ No Ball,”
unless he be run out or break Laws 26, 27, 29, 30. All runs made
from a “ No Ball,” otherwise than from the bat, shall be scored
“ No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall be added to that
score. From a “ Wide Ball,” as many runs as are run shall be
added to the score as “ Wide Balls,” and if no run be otherwise
obtained one run shall be so added.
(See Laws 13 and 28 and Notes thereto.)
NOTES.
(a)	A batsman cannot be stumped off a “ No Bali ’’ (Law 16). The Laws of
Cricket clearly make a distinction between the wicket-keeper and the fieldsmen
and between eases of “ stumping ” and “ run out ” (see Laws 23 and 28).
When a “ No Ball ” has been called it must be Jell to the umpire to decide,
on the facts before him, whether the ease is one of “slumping” (under Law 23,
or “ run out ” (under Law 28).
8
(b)	When a run is made by the bat of!’ a “ No Ball,” only the run to the bats-
man should be scored and not the “ No Ball ” as well. When a run has been made
off a “ No Ball,” the run should be added to the score of the striker although the
ball has been caught. If one run is attempted and the batsman is run out, the
" No Ball ” alone counts. If runs arc made off a “ No Ball,” although the runs are
scored and not the “ No Ball,” the bowler is allowed another delivery.
(c)	When ” Byes ” or “ Overthrows ” arc run from a “ Wide ” they arc
scored as “ Wides.”
“BYE” AND “LEG BYE.”
17.—If the ball, not having been called “ Wide ” or “ No Ball,”
pass the Striker without touching his bat, or person, and any runs
lx? obtained, the Umpire shall call “ Bye ” ; but if the ball touch
any part of the Striker’s person (hand excepted) and any run be
obtained, the Umpire shall call “ Leg Bye,” such runs to be scored
“ Byes ” and “ Leg Byes ” respectively.
NOTE.
(a)	If the striker kicks the ball wilfully, no runs shall be scored.
, “ PLAY.”
18.—At the beginning of the match, and of each innings, the
Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall call “ Play ” ; from that time
no trial ball shall be allowed to any bowler on the ground between
the wickets, and when one of the batsmen is out, the use of the bat
shall not be allowed to any person until the next batsman shall
come in.
NOTE.
(a)	Trial balls, if both batsmen are at the wickets, arc not allowed.
THE BATSMEN.
“OUT OF HIS GROUND.”
19.—A Batsman shall be held to be “ out of his ground,” unless
his bat in hand, or some part of his person be grounded within the
line of the Popping crease.
NOTE.
(o) It is sufficient if part of the batsman’s foot is grounded within the line. If
the foot is on the line, but no part is within, the batsman would be “ out of his
ground.”
WICKET IS “DOWN.”
20.—The wicket shall be held to be “ down,” when either of the
bails is struck off, or if both bails be off, when a stump is struck
out of the ground.
NOTES.
(o) The wicket is “ down ” under this Law if any part of either bail is “ struck
off” the top of the wicket.
An umpire is justified in ruling that part of a bail has been “ struck off,” if
as a result of the wicket being hit any part of cither bail has been disturbed from
its original position on the top of the stumps.
(b)	If one bail is off, it is sufficient to remove the remaining one with the ball
in order to stump or run a batsman out.
(c)	Although the Law says nothing about the stumps being pulled out, it is
customary to run a batsman out in this way when the bails arc off : but the ball
must be in the fieldsman’s hand when he uses it for this purpose. (See also
Law 28).
(t/) If one bail has fallen from the stumps, and a ball, having been cither
bowled or thrown in, strikes a stump without displacing the remaining baiK the
wicket is not “down” unless that stump is struck out of the ground
9
(e)	If, owing to the strength of the wind, the captains have agreed to dispense
with the use of bails (see Law 6, Note (c)), the decision as to when a wicket if
“ down ’* is one for the umpires to decide on the facts before them. (In such
circumstances the wicket would be held to be “ down ” even though a stump has
not been struck out of the ground.)
(/) If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play, the umpires arc not
justified in remaking the wicket until the ball has become “ dead.” A fieldsman,
however, is not debarred from remaking the wicket in such circumstances.
“ BOWLED.”
The Striker is Out—
21.—If the wicket be bowled down, even if the ball first touch
the Striker’s bat or person ;—“ Bowled.”
NOTES.
(a)	An umpire is justified in giving the striker out " Bowled ” when a stump
is bowled down, even though the bails by some mischance remain in position.
'b) The striker having played the ball is out “ Bowled ” if he then kicks the
ball on to his wicket.
“CAUGHT.”
22.—Or, if the ball, from a stroke of the bat or hand, but not the
wrist, he held before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to
the body of the catcher ;—“ Caught.”
(See Note to Law 32.)
' NOTES.
(n) The ball must not touch the ground before it is held : but the hand
holding the ball may touch the ground in effecting the catch.
(b)	When a fieldsman catches a ball and falls and the ball touches the ground,
it is a question of fact for the umpire to decide whether or not the catch was com-
pleted before the ball touched the ground.
(c)	When a batsman plays a ball on to the ground and in order to prevent
it hitting the wicket, after touching the ground, he strikes it again and the ball is
caught, the batsman is not out. But if he hit the ball a second time before it
touches the ground and is caught, he would be out under this Law.
(d)	A batsman is out if caught off a ball which before striking the bat had
hit his pad.
O’) If no boundaries have been arranged a striker can be caught off a tree,
hedge or building.
(f)	The striker is out if the ball is “ hugged to the body of the catcher ”
even though he has not touched it \vi»h his bands. Should the ball lodge in the
fieldsman’s clothing, or in the top of the wicket-keeper’s pads, this will amount
to its being “ hugged to the body of the catcher.”
(g)	The striker is out “ Caught;” although before the catch is held the ball
after touching a fieldsman has removed a bail at the non-strikcr’s end, the non-
striker being out of his ground.
“ STUMPED.”
23.—Or, if in playing at the ball, provided it be not touched by
the bat or hand, the Striker be out of his ground, and the wicket
be put down by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with hand or arm
with ball in hand •—“ Stumped.”
NOTES.
(a)	If the ball »cbounds oil the pad or person of the wicket-keeper, without
having first touched the ba- or hand of the striker, and the striker is out of his
ground, the decision shall be ” Stumped ” and not ” Run Out."
(b)	It is sufficient for the wicket-keeper to remove one bail in order to stump
a batsman.
It is not out if he knocks the bails off with his foot or with an arm or hand nd!
holding the ball.
10
“ L.B.W.”
24.—Or, if with any part of his person (except his hand) which
is between wicket and wicket he intercept a ball which, in the
opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket, shall have been
pitched in a straight line from the Bowler’s wicket to the Striker’s
wicket or shall have been pitched on the off side of the Striker’s
wicket and would have hit it ;—“ Leg before wicket.”
(Revised 5th May, 1937.)
NOTES.
(a)	There are four considerations which an umpire must bear in mind :
(i)	Would the ball have hit the wicket ?
(ii)	Did it pitch on the offside of the striker’s wicket or in a straight line
between wicket and wicket ?
(iii)	Was it part of the batsman’s person other than the hand, .which
• first intercepted the ball ?
(iv)	Was that part of the batsman’s person between wicket and wicket at
the moment of impact ?
If all these questions arc answered in the affirmative the batsman is out.
(b)	A batsman may be out L.B.W., although the bowler is bowling round
the wicket, if the case comes within this Law.
(c)	It is immaterial whether the ball breaks or not. It is sometimes only
possible for a bowler bowling round the wicket to obtain an L.B.W. with a breaking
ball.
(J) The striker shall not be given out L.B.W. if the ball has touched his bat or
hand before hitting his person. (See Law 27.)
(r) The umpire is justified in giving the batsman out L.B.W., if in playing
at the ball the striker’s hat blew off and deflected the course of the ball which
otherwise would have hit his wicket, all the requirements of Law 24 having been
fulfilled.
(/) The word “ person ” in the Law includes the striker’s dress.
“HIT WICKET.”
25.—Or, if in playing at the ball he hit down his wicket with his
bat or any part of his person or dress ;—“ Hit Wicket.”
NOTES.
(a)	If, in making a second stroke to keep the ball out of his wicket, the
striker hit down his wicket as above, he is out.
(b)	If, while playing at the ball, but not otherwise, the striker's hat or cap
falls on the wicket and dislodges a bail, he is out.
(c)	If, while playing at the ball, a part of the striker’s bat breaks his wicket.
he Is out.
(d)	A batsman as not out for breaking the wicket cither with his bat or person
when in the act of running.
“OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD.”
26.—Or, if under pretence of running, or otherwise, either of the
batsmen wilfully prevent a ball from being caught ;—“ Obstructing
the field.”
NOTES.
(a) j It should be noted that it is the striker who is out if this Law is infringed.
(b)	The correct entry in the score book when the striker is given out under
this Law is “ Obstructing the field,” and the bowler docs not get credit for the
wic cet.
“ HIT THE BALL TWICE.”
27.—Or, if the ball be struck or be stopped by any part of his
person,, and he wilfully strike it again, except it be done for the
purpose of guarding his wicket, which he may do with his bat or
any part of his nerson, excent his hands ;—“ Hit the ball twice.”
11
NOTES.
(«) It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball has been struck “ wilfully ”
for some purpose other than that of guarding the wicket. The fact that a run
is attempted may be evidence of the batsman’s intention to take advantage of
the second stroke, and the umpire is entitled to regard it as such, but it is not
conclusive.
(b)	The spirit of this Law is infringed by the striker, if, after playing the ball,
he knocks it back to the bowler, although his wicket is in no danger.
(c)	If the ball has been lawfully struck twice and an overthrow is made, the
striker is entitled to the runs which follow.
(d)	A striker may be out for hitting the ball twice, although no run is
attempted. {See also Law 22, Note (c).)
“RUN OUT.’’
Either Batsman is Out—
28.—If in running, or at any other time, when the ball is in play
he be out of his ground, and his wicket be struck down by the ball
after touching any fieldsman, or by the hand or arm, with ball in
hand, of any fieldsman ;—“ Run out.” But the Striker may not be
out thus, unless the bail has touched the bat or hand, when, in playing
at a “ No Ball ” he be out of his ground and the wicket be put down
by the wicket-keeper with the ball, or with hand or arm with ball
in hand.
{Revised 1st May, 1912.)
{See Law 31, and Notes to Laws 20 and 35.)
NOTES.
(a) For a definition of” out of his ground ” see Law 19 and Note.
(b)	At any time when the ball is in play either batsman can be " run out'
by any fieldsman, including the bowler.
(c)	It is not out if the striker hits the ball into the opposite wickets—the
other batsman being out of his ground—unless the ball had been touched by a
fieldsman after being hit and before striking the wickets.
(</) It is sufficient for a fieldsman, either by throwing, or with the ball in the
hand used for the purpose, to temovc one bail in order to “ run out ” a batsman.
“ HANDLED THE BALL.”
29.—Or, if he touch with his hands or take up the ball while in
play unless at the request of the opposite side ;—“ Handled the ball.”
NOTE.
(«) The correct entry in the sccre book when a batsman is given out under
this Law is “ Handled the ball," and ihc bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
“OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD.”
30.—Or, if he wilfully obstruct any fieldsman “ Obstructing
the field.”
{See Law 26, Mote (6).)
NOTE.
(a) The umpire must decide on the fact-, before him if the obstruction was
“ wilful.”
“ BATSMEN CROSSING.”
31.__if the batsmen have crossed each other, he that runs for the
wicket which is put down is out ; if they bave not crossed he that
has left the wicket which is put down is out.
12
“ RUNS.”
32.—The Striker being caught no run shall be scored. A Batsman
being run out, that run which was being attempted shall not be
scored.
(See Notes to Law 22.)
NOTE.
(a)	Although that run which is being attempted shall not be scored, (he
remaining batsman does not resume his position at the wicket he has left, if he
and his partner have crossed.
“ DEAD BALL.”
33A.—Batsman being out from any cause, the ball shall be
“ Dead.”
33B.—If the Ball, whether struck with the bat or not, lodges in
a Batsman’s clothing, the ball shall become “ Dead.”
(Introduced 3rd May, 1899.)
“ LOST BALL.”
34.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered, any fieldsman
may call “ Lost Ball,” when the ball shall be “ Dead ” ; six runs
shall be added to the score ; but if more than six runs have been
run before “ Lost Ball ” has been called, as many runs as have been
run shall be scored.
NOTE.
(a) A lost ball should be replaced by one in a similar condition.
“ DEAD BALL, ETC.”
35.—After the ball shall have been finally settled in the Wicket-
keeper's or Bowler's hand, it shall be “ Dead ” ; but when the
Bowler is about to deliver the ball, if the Batsman at his wicket be
out of his ground before actual delivery, the said Bowler may run
him out ; but if the Bowler throw at that wicket and any run result.
it shall be scored “ No Ball.”
NOTES.
(a) Whether the ball is “ finally settled ” is a question of fact for the umpire
only to decide. (See Law 13. Note (a).)
(b)	A bowler may run a batsman out, without having delivered the ball, in
any way authorized by the Laws. He may have passed the Bowling crease in
his run, or may change the ball from one hand to the other, before throwing at the
wicket or knocking off the bails. The bails may be knocked olT from cither side
of the wickets.
(c)	If the bowler throws the ball at the wicket with the object of running
out the batsman at his end, such a throw does not constitute a ** No Ball,” and
the ball not having been delivered docs not ccsint as one of the over. If, however,
runs result from such action on the part of the bowler, they arc to be credited
to ** No Balls” in the score book in accorJancc with Law 16.
GENERAL NOTES ON LAWS 33A TO 35 INCLUSIVE.
(d)	A ball can only become “ dead ” under Laws 33A, 33B, 34, 35 including
NoteC/), 41 and 50, or on the call of a boundary.
(e)	A ball does not become ” dcid ” when the bails arc off or the wickets
struck down or because an unsuccessful appeal has been made to the umpire.
(/) The ball docs not become *’ dead ” on merely hitting the umpire unless
it lodges in his pocket or clothing.
(g) Lodging in a batsman’s clothing includes practically all ways in which
a ball can be said to lodge in or against his clothing.
(/») The ball ceases to be ’’dead ” when the bowler begins his run or bowling
action.
13
BATSMAN RETIRING FROM HIS WICKET.
36.—A Batsman shall not retire from his wicket and return to it
to complete his innings after another has been in, without the consent
of the opposite side.
NOTE.
(a)	When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some other
unavoidable cause, his innings must be counted as “ Not out.”
SUBSTITUTES.
37.—A substitute shall be allowed to field or run between wickets
for any player, who may during the match be incapacitated from
illness or injury, but for no other reason, except with the consent of
the opposite side.
NOTES.
(a)	It is well to remember that a side which loses a player’s services through
dlncss or injury, brought about during the match, is entitled to a substitute,
whereas in other circumstances consent is necessary, which must depend upon the
courtesy of the opposing captain.
(/>) A side may bat with its full number, provided no disqualification rule
applies, even though substitutes have been allowed to field To prevent any abuse
of this provision, and other disputes, the captains, before tossing, should exchange
lists of the players.
(c)	There is no law prohibiting a player from bowling because he has had a
substitute to run for him.
(<0 No substitute shall be allowed to bat or bowl.
38.—In ail cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the consent
of the opposite side shall be obtained as to the person to act as
substitute, and the place in the field which he shall take.
39.—In case any substitute shall he allowed to run between
wickets, the Striker may bb run out if either he or his substitute
be out of his ground. If the Striker be out of his ground while the
ball is in play, that wicket which he has left may be put down and
the Striker given out, although the other batsman may have made
good the ground at that end, and the Striker and his substitute at
the other end.
NOTES.
(o) The distinction between the words “ Striker ” and “ Batsman ” should
be appreciated. When the injured batsman is not the striker he is subject only
to such penalty under this Law as is incut red by his runner.
(6) The intention of this Law is that the injured striker’s ground, when he
has a substitute to run for him, is at the wicket-keeper’s end. He himself can only
be run out at that end as provided for in the latter part of the Law.
40.—A Batsman is liable to be out for any infringement of the
Laws by his substitute.
THE FIELDSMAN.
41.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his
person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise, the ball shall be “ Dead ”
and five runs added to the run or runs already made ; if no runs
have been made five shall be added.
(Revised 6th May, 1936.)
NOTE.
(«) The five runs arc a penalty and the batsmen do not change ends.
14
WICKET-KEEPER.
42.—The Wicket-keeper shall stand behind the wicket. If he
shall take the ball for the purpose of stumping, before it has passed
the wicket, or, if he shall incommode the Striker by any noise, or
motion, or if any part of his person be over or before the wicket, the
Striker shall not be out, excepting under Laws 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
NOTE.
(a)	A wicket-keeper may run a batsman out by going in front of the wicket
(Law 28). The umpire must decide from the facts if the act is legal.
DUTIES OF UMPIRES.
43.—The Umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, of
the fitness of the ground, the weather, and the light for play ; all
disputes shall be determined by them, and if they disagree the actual
state of things shall continue.
(See Law 3.)
NOTES.
(a) Fair and Unfair Play.
(i)	Under this Law the umpires arc entitled to intervene without appeal in
the case of unfair play. (Sec Law 3, Note (</).)
(ii)	Umpires shall not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by appeals
from such of the field who were not in a position to form a judgment on the point
appealed upon, or by tricks—such as throwing up the ball, on an appeal for a
catch at the wicket, without waiting for the decision. Umpires, being the sole
judges of fair or unfair play, must remember that such devices arc obviously
unfair, and arc not in accordance with the spirit in which cricket should be played.
(iii)	In the event of a player criticising or showing resentment on or off the
field to the decision of an umpire, the umpires should in the first place request
the captains to take action, and if this proves ineffective, report the incident
forthwith to the executives of the teams taking’part in the match.
(Umpires in First-class or Minor County matches arc required to report all
such cases to the Secretary of the M.C.C., after first informing the captains during
the match of their intention to make the report.)
(iv)	The special attention of umpires is cal'cd to Law 48, which directs them
to call *' No Ball.” unless absolutely satisfied of the fairness of the delivery.
(v)	It is illegal for the bowler to lift the seam of the ball in order to obtain
a better hold. The ball, in such a case, should be shown to the umpire who should
call for another ball and warn the captain that the practice is unfair. The use of
resin by bowlers is also unfair.
(vi)	The persistent and systematic bowling of fast short-pitched balls at (he
batsman standing clear of his wicket is “ unfair,” and if, in the opinion of the
umpire at the bowler’s end, unfair bowling of this type takes place he shall adopt
the following procedure :—
1.	As soon as he decides that such bowling is becoming persistent he shall
forthwith “ caution ” the bowler.
2.	If this “ caution ” is ineffective, he shall inform the captain of the fielding
side and the other umpire of what has occurred.
3.	Should the above prove ineffective, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall :—
(i) At the first repetition call “ dead ball ” and the over shall be regarded
as completed.
(ii) Request the captain of the fielding side to take the bowler off forthwith.
(iii)	Report the occurrence to the captain of the batting side, as soon as an
interval of play takes place.
A bowler who has been ” taken off" as above shall not bowl again during
the same innings.
15
(6) Ground, Weather and Light.
General.
(i) Only when the captains (or their representatives) disagree or prefer to
leave the decision to the umpires docs the responsibility of deciding as to the
fitness of the ground, including the wicket, the weather and the light, for play
rest with the umpires.
(it) The umpires arc not to be biased by the opinions of either side, still
less arc they to allow themselves to be influenced by the impatience of the spec-
tators for a resumption of the game, and arc not to be induced, by the public
interest in a particular match, to declare the ground fit for play, unless they would
consider the ground, weather, or light, fit under any circumstances.
Ground.
(tii) At the commencement of a match, the umpires may be appealed to by
either side as to the fitness of the ground for play.
Should they not agree, play will not commence until they arc agreed.
The ground is unfit for play when water stands on the surface, or when it is
so wet, muddy, or slippery as to deprive the bowlers of a reasonable foothold, 01
the fieldsmen of the power of free movement.
Umpires arc not justified in deciding the ground unfit for play merely because
the grass is wet and the ball would, in consequence, be slippery.
(iv)	In the ease of interruption from rain, as soon as the rain has ceased,
the captains, or if the decision has been left to them, the umpires, shall, immedi-
ately, without further instruction, inspect the wicket, unaccompanied by any of
the players, and decide upon its fitness. Should it prove unfit, they shall continue
to inspect at intervals, until they decide that it is fit for play, when they shall call
upon the players to resume the game.
Weather and Light.
(v)	A batsman at the wickets and the captain of the fielding side shall consult
as to the fitness of weather and light for play, and if they arc unable to agree die
question shall be determined by the umpires. Should play be s&spended, and the
conditions later improve, the umpires shall, without waiting for instructions, call
upon the players to resume the game.
44.—They shall pitch fair wickets, arrange boundaries where
necessary, and the allowances to be made for them, and change ends
after each side has had one innings.
NOTES.
(«) If a ball hit or pass over or through the boundary or is carried over it
by the fieldsman the umpire shall call a boundary hit, but a fieldsman may lean
against the boundary to catch or field a ball, and if a fieldsman when standing
within the playing ground, even though he be touching the boundary, catch a
ball outside the boundary the batsman shall be given out.
If a fieldsman grounds any part of his body on or over the boundary line while
he has the ball in hand, the umpire shall signal “ Boundary hit ”
(6) When the ball touches the boundary it becomes “ dead.”
(c)	The umpire is not a boundary.
(c/) It is for the umpire to decide if a hit has reached the boundary.
(c) If a seat or other obstacle other than the sight screens is within the playing
area, and such obstacle is struck by the ball, it cannot be regarded as a boundary
unless so arranged by the umpires.
(/) When four runs are allowed for a boundary hit it is the practice for
umpires to allow six runs for all hits that drop over and clear of the boundary
line or fence, even though the ball has been touched by a fieldsman in an attempt
to make a catch.
It is not the custom to allow six runs when a ball hits a sight screen full
pitch, if the latter is positioned on or inside the boundary.
(g) When a batsman has actually made more runs for a boundary hit than have
been arranged for the boundary, Law 2 will prevail, and the runs completed shall
be scored.
16
(/i) 'rhe runs which have been arranged for a boundary hit arc to be added
to the runs already made should a fieldsman wilfully cause the ball to reach the
boundary, if, however, the fieldsman involuntarily causes the ball to reach the
boundary, only the value of the boundary shall be credited to the striker.
(/) In the case of a boundary overthrow, in addition to the ordinary boundary
allowance, all runs completed and, provided the batsmen had crossed at live
moment the fieldsman threw the ball, the run in course of completion, count as
runs.
INTERVALS.
45.—They shall allow two minutes for each Striker to come in,
and ten minutes between each innings. When they shall call “ Play ”
the side refusing to play shall lose the match.
NOTES.
(a)	The “ in-going ” batsman should meet the “ out-coming ” batsman
before he enters the pavilion.
It is the duty of the captains to see that this Law is strictly observed.
(6) The effect of this Law is that the umpire shall decide whether the delay
of the individual amounts to a refusal of the batting side to play. It provides a
specific penalty in such a case but none for the individual.
(c) The interval for luncheon shall be 40 minutes. In the event of the last
wicket falling within two minutes of the time arranged for luncheon, the game
shall be resumed at the usual hour, no allowance being made for the 10 minutes
between the innings.
APPEALS.
46.—They shall not order a batsman out unless appealed to by
the other side.
NOTES.
(a) An appeal, “ How’s that ? ” covers all ways of being out (within the
jurisdiction of the umpire appealed to), unless a specific way of getting out is
stated by the person asking.
(b)	The decision ** Out ” shall be signalled by raising the index finger above
the head. Besides signalling, the umpire shall call distinctly for the information
of the players. If the batsman is not out, the umpire shall call “ Not out.”
(c)	If a batsman thinks he is out and walks away, the umpire is not required
to intervene save on appeal or should he consider a decision has been misconstrued.
On giving a decision the umpire should make sure that the batsman under-
stands what the decision is.
(r/) An umpire may alter his decision if. in the hurry of the moment or by a
slip of the tongue he has given a wrong one, provided that such alteration is made
promptly.
JURISDICTION OF UMPIRES.
47.—The Umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall be appealed to
before the other Umpire in all cases, except in those of stumping,
hit wicket, run out at the Striker’s wicket, or arising out of Law 42,
but in any case in which an Umpire is unable to give a decision, he
shall appeal to the other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
NOTES.
(a) When either umpire has given a batsman “ Not out ” the other umpire
may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction, subject to an observance of Law 50.
(Z>) An umpire is only justified in appealing to the other umpire when he is
unable to decide, owing to his having been prevented from seeing the occurrence
on which the appeal is based. He is not to appeal to the other umpire in eases
on which he could give a decision, merely because he is unwilling to give that
decision. If, after consultation, he is still in any doubt, the principle laid down
in Law 43, that “ the actual state of things shall continue,” shall be followed
and in consequence, the decision should be in favour of the batsman.
17
NO BALL.
48.—If cither Umpire be not satisfied of the absolute fairness of
the delivery of any ball, he shall call “ No Ball.”
(Revised 30th October, 1899.)
CALLING “NO BALL’’ AND “WIDE.”
48A.—The Umpire shall take especial care to call “No Ball”
instantly upon delivery ; “ Wide Ball ” as soon as it shall have
passed the striker.
NOTE.
(a) If an umpire has called “ No Ball ” when the ball has not been delivered,
he should revoke his decision.
SHORT RUNS.
49.—If cither batsman run a short run, the Umpire shall call
“ One short ” and the run shall not be scored.
NOTES.
(«) When a batsman takes his guard in front of the Popping crease and a
run is made from that point, the umpire does not call “ One short.”
(b)	When a short run is called the batsmen do not cross over to the positions
they would have been in if the run had not been attempted.
(c)	If two or more runs arc attempted, and the umpire calls “ One short,“
only one run is deducted, although the fact that the batsman failed to complete
one run shortens the distance necessary to complete the subsequent run.
APPEALS.
50.—After the Umpire has called “ Over ” the ball is “ Dead,”
but an appeal may be made as to whether either batsman is out, such
appeal however shall not be made after the delivery of the next ball,
nor after any cessation of play.
NOTES.
(a) No .nt on the part of the fielding side can cause a batsman to be out
after the umpire has called ” Over,” but an appeal may be made within the allotted
time.
(b)	An appeal may not be made after " Time ” has been called and the bails
have been removed by both umpires. " Time ” shall be called before the players
leave the field for any interval of play, as well as at the close of play. (See Law 13,
Note (r).)
51.—No Umpire shall be allowed to bet.
52.—No Umpire shall be changed during a match, unless with
(he consent of both sides, except in case of violation of Law 51 ;
then either side may dismiss him.
FOLLOWING INNINGS.
53.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs (in Australia
200 runs) in a match of three days or more, or by 100 runs in a two
days' match, shall have the option of requiring the other side to
follow their innings.
Revised 10th July, 1894 ; 2nd May, 1900; 3rd May, 1922 ; 4th May, 1927.)
18
DECLARATIONS.
54.—The In-side may declare their innings at an end in a match
of three days or more, at any time on the second day ; in a two
days’ match the Captain of the batting side has power to declare his
innings at a close at any time ; but such declaration may not be
made on the first day later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the
hour agreed on for drawing stumps ; in a one day match at any
time.
(Introduced 1st May, 1889. Revised 2nd May. 1900 ; 2nd May, 1906 ; 4th May,
1910 ; 4th May, 1927.)
NOTES.
la) If a side declare its innings during the luncheon interval, it must do so
within fifteen minutes after the commencement of such interval otherwise an
extra seven minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(6) If a side declare its innings closed in the morning before play commences,
it must do so in sufficient time to enable the other side to choose the roller it prefers,
otherwise an extra seven minutes will be allowed for rolling.
(c)	A declaration of a first innings does not preclude a second innings.
(d)	For the purpose of stating the result of a match, an innings declared at
an end is regarded as completed and the victory, if accomplished, is in runs and
not by wickets.
55.—Where there is no play on the first day of a three day
match Laws 53 and 54 shall apply as if the match were a two day
match, and if in a three day match there is no play on the first two
days, Law 54 and Law 1 “ one day matches ” shall apply as if the
match were a one day match. Where there is no play on the first
day of a two day match, Law 54 and Law 1 “ one day matches ”
shall apply as if the match were a one day match.
(Introduced 6th May, 1914. Revised 7th May, 1919.)
ONE-DAY MATCHES.
1.—The side which bats first and leads by 75 runs shall have
the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
2.—The Match, unless played out, shall be decided by the First
Innings. Prior to the commencement of a match it may be agreed :—
that the Over consist of 5 or 6 balls.
NOTES.
(a)	A tic is included in the words “ played out.”
(See also Law of Cricket No. 2, Note (6).)
(b)	If the captains are unable to agree, the umpires shall decide if there is
sufficient time left to carry the game to a further issue after each side has completed
an innings.
(c)	For “ Declaration ” in one-day matches, see Law of Cricket No. 54.
19
SINGLE WICKET.
rhe following Laws arc supplementary to the Laws of Cricket, which as far
as they arc applicable, must be followed :—
1.	One Wicket shall be pitched, as in Law 6, with a Bowling stump opposite
to it, at a distance of twenty-two yards. The Bowling crease shall be in a line
with the Bowling stump ; and drawn according to Law 7.
2 When there shall be less than five players on a side, Bounds shall be placed
twenty-two yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
3.	The ball must be hit before the Bounds to entitle the striker to a run.
which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the Bowling stump or crease in a
line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them, and return to
the Popping crease.
4.	When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the ground
behind the Popping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call “ No Hit," and no run
shall be scored.
5.	When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither Byes, Leg
Byes, nor Overthrows shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught out behind
the wicket, nor stumped.
6.	The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the ground be-
tween the wicket and the Bowling stump, or between the Bowling stump and the
Bounds ; the striker may run till the ball be so returned.
7.	After the striker shall have made one run, if he start again he must touch
the Bowling stump or crease, and turn before the ball cross the ground to entitle
him to another.
8.—The striker shall be entitled to three runs for Lost Ball, and the same
number for ball wilfully stopped by a fieldsman otherwise than with any part of
his person.
9.	When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall be no
Bounds. All Hits, Byes, Leg Byes, and Overthrows shall then be allowed.
10.	There shall be no restriction as to the ball being bowled in Oveis, but no
more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
20
NOTES FOR SCORERS AND UMPIRES.
1.	(o) The scorers must accept the umpires’ signals and instructions, and
though it is no part of their duty to dictate to the umpires, mutual consultation
to clear up doubtful points is at all times permissible.
(b)	During the progress of the game, if two scorers have been appointed,
they should frequently check the total to ensure that the score sheets agree.
(c)	The umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by the scorer
before allowing the game to proceed, and in addition to signalling the umpire
should call distinctly for the information of the players.
(d)	The following method of entering “ No Balls” and ** Widcs” (Law 16)
in the score sheet is recommended :—
(i)	If no run is scored from the bat off a “ No Ball," the latter should be
entered as an “ Extra,” and a dot placed in the bowling analysis with a
circle round it to show that the ball docs not count in the over.
(ii)	If runs arc scored from the bat off a “ No Ball,” they should be credited
to the striker, and entered in the bowling analysis with a circle round the
figure. Such runs count against the bowler in his analysis even though
the ball docs not count in the over.
(iii)	Whatever runs arc scored from “ Wide Balls ” arc entered as ” Extras.”
and inserted in the bowler’s analysis with a cross to indicate that the
ball does not count in the over.
2.	The following code of signalling between the umpires and the scorers
has been approved :—
Boundaries shall be signalled by waving the hand from side to side.
A boundary six shall be signalled by raising both arms above the head
Byes shall be signalled by raising the open hand above the head
Leg Byes shall be signalled by raising the leg and touching it with tlic
hand.
Widcs shall be signalled by extending both arms horizontally.
No Balls shall be signalled by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “ Out ” shall be signalled by raising the index fingcr above
the head.
“ One Short ” shall be signalled by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest shoulder with the tips of the fingers of
one hand.
3.	If the above instructions are properly carried out. cases of disagreement
as regards the scores and the results of matches should not occur.
It is. however, important that the captains should satisfy themselves of the
correctness of the scores on the conclusion of play, as errors cannot subsequently
be corrected.
It should be noted that, in general, by accepting the result notified by the
scorers, the captain of the losing side has thereby acquiesced in the ** playing out
or. giving up ” of the match as stated in Law 2.
21
REGULATIONS FOR DRYING THE
WICKETS AND GROUND IN FIRST-
CLASS MATCHES IN ENGLAND.
N.B.—These regulations are primarily designed for First-class Cricket, and their
application in whole or in part in other grades of English Cricket is at the
discretion of the ground, etc., authorities.
I.	Except as provided below, the existing regulations in regard to the
rolling of the wicket and the fitness of the ground for play shall apply. (See
Laws 9 and 43.)
2.	(i) To enable play to proceed with the least possible delay after rain,
the groundman shall adopt every practical means to protect or rid the surface
of the ground, other than the pitch, of water or dampness at any time except while
play is in progress. (The pitch will be regarded as 10 ft. in width, i.c., 5 ft. on
each side from the centre stump.)
(ii) Prior to tossing for choice of innings, the artificial drying of the pitch,
as defined above, shall be at the discretion of the groundman, but thereafter,
and throughout the match, the drying process shall be carried out only on the
instructions and under the supervision of the umpires, who shall be empowered
to have the wicket dried, without reference to the captains, at any time they are
of opinion that it is unfit for play.
(iii) In wet weather, the umpires shall sec that the foot-holes made by the
bowlers and batsmen are cleaned, dried and filled up with sawdust at any time
during the match, although the game is not actually in progress.
The groundman, without instructions from the umpires, may also clean out in
this way foot-holes, provided they arc not on any part of the pitch (as defined
in (b) (i) above), more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping creases.
The drying of foot-holes on the pitch itself shall be supervised by the umpires,
but, in the interval between close of play on any day and its further resumption,
the groundman may protect against further rain, marks made by the bowlers, even
though they be more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping creases, provided
they arc not between wicket and wicket, with loose sawdust, which, however.
shall be removed prior to the resumption of play.
(iv)	The umpires shall ascertain from the groundman before the commence-
ment of a match, what equipment is available for drying the wicket artificially.
Before drying the wicket the umpires shall have regard to the condition of the
outfield and the prospects of its fitness for play. The drier shall be removed
when they arc satisfied that the wicket is fit for play, or as they may direct.
Any roller may be used, if the umpires think desirable but only (except as
laid down in paragraph (b) (v)) for the purpo.'C of drying the wicket and making
it fit for play, and not otherwise. This would allow umpires to roll the wicket
after drying it, say with a light roller, for a minute or two, should they consider
it desirable.
(v)	When the artificial drying of the wicket, under the supervision of the
umpires, coincides with any interval during the match, after the toss for choice of
innings, the umpires, and not the captain of the batting side, shall select the
roller to be used.
(vi)	The fact that the umpires may have dried the wicket artificially docs not
take the decision as regards the fitness of the wicket and ground for play out of the
hands of the captains, even though the umpires may have selected the roller to
be used for the drying process. Law 43, Note (b) (i) is applicable in such cases.
22
IMPERIAL. CRICKET CONFERENCE.
The first Imperial Cricket Conference was held at Lord’s on July 15th, 1909,
composed of representatives of the M.C.C., the Australian Board of Control
and the South African Cricket Association. India, New Zealand and West
Indies were first represented at a meeting held on May 31st, 1926.
Constitution and Voting.
Governing bodies of Cricket in Countries within the Empire, to which cricket
teams arc sent, or from which visits of cricketers arc received, shall be entitled to
send two representatives of such governing bodies to the Conference. (28th July,
1926). England, Australia and South Africa are allowed two votes each at the
Conference, the other Countries represented one vote each (8th September,
1930).
Meetings.
The M.C.C. may on its own initiative, or shall on the request of any two of the
governing bodies, summon a meeting of the Conference. (28th July, 1926).
Governing bodies will notify to the Secretary of the M.C.C. any points they wish
included in Agenda for meetings, and the names of their representatives by
March 1st of each year. (14th June, 1937).
Laws of Cricket.
The official Laws of Cricket will prevail on all tours, unless an agreement to
meet special eases is arrived at between the parties before the visiting team arrives.
(16th July, 1912)
Rules for Test Matches.
At a meeting of the Imperial Cricket Conference on July 29th. 1931, the follow-
ing rules were adopted :—
1.	Test Matches are matches played between sides duly selected by governing
bodies of Cricket recognised by the Imperial Cricket Conference as representing
Countries within the Empire.
2 A Cricketer can be qualified to play in a Test Match either by birth or
residence.
3.	(a) Qualification by Birth.—A Cricketer, unless debarred by the Imperial
Cricket Conference, is always eligible to play for the Country of his birth.
(b)	Qualification by Residence.—A Cricketer, unless debarred by the Imperial
Cricket Conference, shall be entitled to play for any Country in which he is residing
and has been residing during the four immediately preceding years, provided that
he has not played for the Country of his birth during that period.
(c)	Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, any player who has
once played in a Test Match for any Country shall not afterwards be eligible to
play in a Test Match against that Country, without the consent of its Board of
Control.
4.	The respective Boards of Control of the Countries affiliated to the Imperial
Cricket Conference shall be responsible for submitting, in reasonable time for the
approval of the Imperial Cricket Conference, the names of any cricketers whose
qualifications are in doubt, and who are likely to be selected to play in any ap-
proaching series of Test Matches, furnishing their qualifications and stating if
any player has during the four immediately preceding years played for the Country
of his birth.
In the case of Cricketers qualified by residence, they shall further state the
periods of residence upon which such qualifications arc founded.
(Amended 14th June, 1937.)
5.	Any question arising out of these rules shall be submitted to the Imperial
Cricket Conference, and their decision shall be final.
(These Rules came into force on 1 st September, 1931.)
23
BOARD OF CONTROL
OF TEST MATCHES AT HOME.
(Formed at the request of the Counties by the M.C.C., 1898.)
To consist of the President of the M.C.C. (in the chair), five of its Club Com-
mittee, one representative from each of the ten First-class Counties at the top of
last season's list, and one representative from each County on whose ground a
Test Match is to be played subject to such County not already being represented.
The constitution of the Board to remain unchanged until after the accounts
of the season have been passed.
RULES.
Play and Intervals.
1.	In all Test Matches play shall begin at each day. Stumps
shall be drawn at 6.30 p.m. each day. Luncheon Interval 1.30 to 2.15 p.m.
In the event of there being no break of play during the afternoon, and not more
than eight wickets down at 4.30 p.m., a Tea Interval shall be taken at 4.30 p.m.
If an innings is completed, or declared at an end, after the Luncheon Interval
and not later than 3.30 p.m., or if there has been a break of play during that period,
there shall be a Tea Interval at 4.30 p.m., or one hour after the resumption of play
whichever is the later, always provided that not more than eight wickets arc down.
If, at the time a Tea Interval is due, nine wickets arc down, play shall continue
until 5 o’clock, and if the last wicket has not fallen a Tea Interval shall be taken.
A Tea Interval shall be fifteen minutes.
There shall be no Tea Interval if:—
(a) No play has taken place between 2.15 and 3.30 p.m. ; or if
(6) There is a break of play owing to weather or light of not less than
fifteen minutes after 3.30 p.m. ; or if
(c) An innings is completed or declared at an end after 3.30 p.m.
Umpires.
2.	Umpires for the Test Matches shall be appointed by the Board of Control,
but before such appointments arc made the captains shall be consulted. They
shall be paid each per Test Match plus third-class railway fares from the
places where they have umpired on the three days before the Test Match, or from
their homes if they have not been umpiring, and third-class railway fares to the
places where they arc umpiring on the days after the Test Match, or to their
homes if they arc not umpiring.
Distribution of Profits.
3.	All moneys taken at Stands and Enclosures at all Test Matches under the
control of the Board, together with Gate Money in respect thereof, less the op-
ponent’s 50 per cent, share for each person paying admission at the outer gate,
any amount payable for Entertainment Tax to be previously deducted, and less
such expenses as arc authorised by the Board, be placed in the hands of the Board
for distribution as follows : 40 per cent, equally between the First-class Counties
upon whose Grounds the Test Matches are played ; 50 per cent, equally between
the First-class Counties on whose Grounds no Test Matches are played. For the
purpose of cither of the foregoing the M.C.C. to rank as a First-class County.
10 per cent, equally between the Minor Counties, Oxford University Cricket
Club and Cambridge University Cricket Club. But should there be a loss on
these matches, such loss shall be divided among the First-class and Minor Counties
and the M.C.C.. and the two Universities in the proportion of their respective
interests. The accounts for Trial Matches shall be kept separate from those of
24
Test Matches, and the profits distributed as above. Any aggregate loss on Trial
Matches will be debited to the Test Match account.
(The participants in distribution also join, pro rota, in a guarantee of £6.400
for payments, allowances, etc., to the Australian team visiting England, and if
the reasonable expenses of their tour based on the expenses of previous tours
arc not covered by their receipts, in an undertaking to pay, up to half 'he money
taken at Stands in Test Matches, for that purpose.)
Selection Sub-Committee.
4.	In 1939 the Selection Sub-Committec shall consist of four members,
including the Chairman, who shall have a casting vole in the selection of the
Captain. Two of the members of the Sub-Committee shall oc selected from
the list of the 1938 County Captains. The said Sub-Committee shall select a
Captain who shall be an cx-officio member of the Sub-Committec, and who
shall have a casting vote. (This rule is experimental.)
5.	No member of the Sub-Committee shall contribute a report or statement
to the Press nor shall he furnish any information by way of interview or by broad-
casting until the end of the season in regard to the Test Matches.
Selectors’ Expenses.
6.	Selectors’ expenses to be allowed arc first-class railway fares and a sum
not exceeding 40s. per diem when away from home for work in connection with
the Test Matches.
Invitations.
7.	When inviting a cricketer to play in a Test Match the Selection Sub-
committee shall make it a condition in writing that the cricketer does not con-
tribute a report or statement of any kind to the Press or give any broadcast talk
or statement, until the end of the season as regards any Test Match for which he
is selected and in which he plays.
When inviting a professional cricketer to play in a Test Match, the Selection
Sub-Committec shall advise the County for which 'he professional plays as well
as the professional himself.
Trustees.
8.	Two Trustees shall appointed to whom all receipts, less authorized
disbursements, shall be made.
Collections.
9.	No collection shad be ullowcd on the ground.
Expenses.
10.	The expense*- to be deducted fiom half the Gross Gate Money shall
include Players (including reserve men), Police, Umpires, Scorer, Gate and Ground
Attendants, Masseur (not exceeding £5), Printing, Advertising, Luncheons,
Match Balls and any other items specially sanctioned by the Board.
Players.
11.	The remuneration of each player shall be per Test Match ; plus
the cost of one third-class railway fare from the place where he has been playing
on the three days before the Test Match, or from his home if he has not been
playing, and one third-class railway fare to the place where he is playing on
the days after the Test Match, or to his home if he is not playing.
Hotel bills, excluding drinks, to be paid by the Board in the case of all pro-
fessionals who stay at Hotels nominated by the Selection Sub-Committee.
Reserve Men.
12.	The remuneration of reserve men, excluding the 12th man, shall be
each per Test Match plus railway fares and Hotel bills as provided for
in the case of players. The 12th man shall receive per Test Match plus
third-class railway fares and Hotel bills as provided for above.
Scorer.
13.	The Scorer shall be paid per Test Mutch inclusive.
25
Amateurs' Expenses.
14.	Amateurs’ expenses to be allowed arc first-class railway fares incurred
by the Test Match and a sum not exceeding 30s. per dieni for not exceeding
days.
Luncheons.
15.	The amount to be allowed for luncheons and refreshments shall not
exceed per dieni.
Clerical Work and Postage.
16.	If the executive of the ground sell Stand or Admission tickets for the Test
"Match in advance of the match, up to 2 per cent, of the money so received shall
be allowed for clerical work and postage.
Advertising.
17.	The sum to be allowed for advertising shall not exceed for each
Test Match.
Screens.
It. The matter of providing screens behind the bowler’s arm at each end of
the ground shall be left to the discretion of the ground on which a Test Match is
played, the usual custom on such ground to prevail.
Duration of Matches.
)9. The Test Matches shall be of days’ duration.
(N.B.—In the event of there being no play on the first day of a four-day match,
it becomes a threc-day match, and thereafter Law 55 of the Laws of Cricket shall
apply.)
New Ball.
20.	Umpires shall inform the batsman when a new ball is about to be used.
Th: fielding side can demand a new ball every 200 runs (c.g., should a new ball be
caled for say at 210 an additional 200 runs must be scored before another new ball
cai be demanded). In the event of the Umpires agreeing that the ball in use is
urfit for play they shall have power to allow another ball (as much like as possible
to the one discarded) to be used at any time they are unanimous on that point
Exchanging Lists of Teams.
21.	The two Captains before tossing shall give each other a list of the eleven
sdccted to play, together with the emergency fieldsman. Afterwards no alteration
slall be made in either eleven or emergency player without the consent of the
opposing Captain.
Fitness of Wicket and Ground.
22.	Except as provided for in the official Laws of Cricket (16th Edition),
pige 21, the two Captains shall decide as to the fitness of the wicket and ground
for play, unless they disagree or prefer to leave the decision to the Umpires. If
tte decision is left to the Umpires the Captains shall forthwith advise them
acordingly.
In order to facilitate play at the earliest possible moment during wet weather
th- groundman shall adopt every practicable means to rid the surface of the ground,
oiler than the pitch, of water or dampness at any time except while play is in
pngress. The Umpires and groundman shall see that the foot-holes made by the
bovlers and the batsmen arc cleaned out, dried and filled up with sawdust as and
who necessary during the match.
'he pitch may be dried artificially vide the official Laws of Cricket (16th
Editon), page 21.
Fitness of Light for Play.
22 The Umpires may decide on appeal from cither side that there is not
suflictni light for play. Should the light improve they shall without waiting for
mstru<ions call upon the players to resume the game.
Time of Starting and Drawing Stumps.
24.	The time of starling and drawing stumps shall be regulated by a clock
on the ground.
Players Leaving the Field.
25.	No player on the fielding side shall leave the field for the purpose of having
a rub do/n or shower whilst a Test Match is actually in progress.
26
Cutting the Grass.
26.	The grass shall be cut on the pitch on the Monday morning, or as laid
down in Law 9, Note (b), of the official Laws of Cricket (16th Edition), in the
presence of the Umpires. The grass on the rest of the ground shall be cut as
far as possible on the morning of each week-day during the progress of such
match. Should the final match be played to a finish the grass shall be cut on the
pitch in the presence of the Umpires, and as far as possible and necessary on the
rest of the ground, on the morning of each week-day during the progress of such
match.
Boundaries.
27.	The question of the Boundary Line and Boundaries generally shall be
left to the Captains at the ground to decide before each Test Match takes place.
The general principle laid down in the official Laws of Cricket (16th Edition)
shall be followed.
Rolling Wicket.
28.	Except as provided for in the official Laws of Cricket (16th Edition)
page 21, Law 9 shall govern the rolling of the wicket.
Covering of Wicket.
29.	The wicket shall be completely protected against rain, if necessary and
as far ns practicable, twenty-four hours before the time advertised for the start
of a Test Match or until play begins After the first ball has been bowled the
covers shall not protect more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the popping crease at
each end.
Cricket Balls.
30.	The executive of the ground on which a Test Match is played ihall
select the cricket balls to be used in such match subject to their being of a veil-
known make and conforming with Law 4 of the official Laws of Cricket.
Lnw 45.
31.	Only when a wicket falls within two minutes of the cessation of play stall
a batsman be excused from going in.
Drinks on the Field.
32.	Drinks shall not be taken on the field to the same team more than o»cc
in each period of play. Each day is divided into three periods, vide Rule 1.
{The payments, etc., are left blank in eases where they may varv from ytar
to year.)
ADVISORY COUNTY CRICKET
COMMITTEE.
In 1904, with the approval of the Counties, the M.C.C. formed an Advisory Comty
Cricket Committee to consider cases arising out of County and other Crickc.
RULES.
1. The Advisory County Cricket Committee shall consist of a representaive
of each First-class County, appointed by his Committee, and three mcnocrs
representing and appointed by the Minor Counties’ Cricket Association aid at
least one member of the M.C.C.
2.	The Chairman of this Committee shall be the President of the M-'.C ;
or some other member of the Committee of the M.C.C. nominated by hm or
in default of such nomination, by the Committee of the M.C.C.
3.	All resolutions passed by this Committee shall be submitted to the M.C.C.
Committee for confirmation.
4.	A meeting may be convened either by five, or more. First-class Ccunties ;
or by the Minor Counties Cricket Association and tu-o, or more, Frst-class
Counties ; or by the M.C.C., and notice shall be sent to all parties iiterested
at least 21 days before the day of meeting.
5.	The notice shall contain an agenda of the meeting. Notice of a amend-
ment to a resolution on the agenda must be given, at least, 14 days *efore the
day of meeting.
27
CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTIES.
Cricketing counties shall be considered as belonging to First-class or Minor
Counties, including second elevens of First-class Counties. There is no necessity
for further sub-division.
First-class Counties are those whose matches with onq another, with M.C.C.,
with the Universities, with the Australians, and such other elevens as shall be
adjudged “ First-class” by the M.C.C. Committee, arc used in compilation of
First-class batting and bowling averages.
Minor Counties are those not included in the First-class, and second elevens
of First-class Counties.
There shall be no limit to the number of First-class or Minor Counties. The
M.C.C. Committee may bring new counties into the list, may remove existing
counties from it, or may do both.
Note.
A three days’ match between two sides of eleven players adjudged First-class
shall be regarded as a First-class fixture.
THE COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIP.
First Class.
After the close of each cricket season the Committee of the M.C.C. shall
decide the County Championship.
It shall be competed for by First-class Counties. No County shall be eligible
unless it shall have played as many matches as may be decided from time to
time by the Advisory County Cricket Committee.
RULES OF COUNTY CRICKET.
First and Second Class County
Competitions.
Adopted by the Advisory County Cricket Committee on March 16th, 1937, and
» amended on April 12Wi, 1938.)
GENERAL RULES.
Alterations to Rules.
1 No alterations in or addition to the Rules of County Cricket shall be made
except at a meeting of the Advisory County Cricket Committee duly convened
for the purpose ; and no such alteration or addition shall be made except by a
vote of two-thirds of the representatives present at such meeting.
Registration of Players.
2.	Previous to the commencement of each cricket season each County in the
Firstand Second-class competition shall, on the form supplied,send to the M.C.C.
and to every oilier County in the First and Second-class County competitions, a list
of the cricketers, with their respective qualifications, who are expected to play
for the County during that season ; and if in the course of the season a County
wishes to play a cricketer not included in that list, his name and qualification shall
be circulated in a similar manner forthwith.
28
Cricketer not to play for more than One County in a Season.
3.	A Cricketer may not play for more than one County in cither competition
within the Calendar Year. The penalty Tor an infringement of this rule shall be
disqualification for two years. A British Dominion or State shall, for the purpose
of this rule, be regarded as a County.
County Boundaries.
4.	For the purpose of County Cricket, County Boundaries arc not affected by
th: Local Government Act of 1888, or by any subsequent statutory modification
thereof.
Notice to Counties.
5.	Correspondence on all matters which concerns a County Cricket Club will be
addressed to the Secretary, and any notice sent to the Secretary of a County
Cricket Club shall be regarded as notice to that County
QUALIFICATIONS.
Birth.
Qualification by Birth.
6.	Subject to the provision of Rule 3, a cricketer is always qualified to play for
the County of his birth.
Residential.
Definition of Residence.
7.	The term “ residence ” as used in these rules excludes the following :—
(i) The mere acquirement or hiring of a tenement unless used as a
bona fide home.
(ii) The occupation of a tenement during the cricket season only.
(in) The residence of a cricketer at his School or University (except as
specially provided for by Rule 10 (6) unless his bona fide home lies
within the County in which such School or University is situated.)
Notwithstanding the above, if a cricketer who is acquiring a residential
qualification for a County leaves the County in order to undertake any Govern-
ment service his residence shall not be broken.
Note 1.
It has been decided that the residence of a master at a school can
reckon as qualifying residence even if he spends his holidays elsewhere.
Note 2.
It has been decided that l^ic residential qualification of a cricketer
is not broken by his undertaking occasional or winter work for business
reasons outside the County in which his bona fide residence is situated.
Twelve Months’ Rule for Cricketers who have NOT played for, etc., a County
during the preceding 24 Months.
8.	(o) A cncketcr, who, during the preceding 24 months, has not played for a
First or Second-class County, or a British Dominion or State, or during that period,
has not been engaged with any other First or Second-class County, shall be
qualified to play for the County in which he has resided for the previous 12 months,
and is residing.
Twelve Months’ Rule for Cricketers who have played for, etc., a County
during the preceding 24 Months.
(6) A cricketer who, during the preceding 24 months, has played for a First-class
County, or during that period, has been engaged with any other First-class
County, shall be qualified to play for the County, whether First or Second-class,
in which he has resided for the previous 12 months, and is residing, subject to the
provisions of Rule 11.
29
Twenty-four Months’ Rule for Second-class Counties, etc.
(c) A cricketer who, during the preceding 24 months, has played for n Second-
class County or a British Dominion or State, or during that period, has been
engaged with any other Second-class County, shall be qualified to play for the
County in which he has resided for the previous 24 months, and is residing, subject
to the provisions of Rule 11.
Note 1.
It has been decided that a cricketer, subject to the provisions of
Rules 3 and 9 (b) does not lose his qualification to play for a County for
which he has a residential qualification and in which he is still residing,
by playing for the County of his birth.
Note 2.
It hus been decided that a cricketer in course of qualifying by residence
for a County docs not break his qualification for that County if he plays
foi another for which he has a qualification.
Continuance of Qualification after Residence has ceased.
9.	(«) A cricketer may play for the County, for which he is qualified by
residence, for two consecutive years immediately after he has ceased to reside in
that County.
Note I.
It has been decided that the above rule applies equally whether a
cricketer has qualified either under 12 months’ or under the 24 months’
qualification laid dow-n in Rule 8.
Note 2.
It has been decided that the above rule docs not necessarily imply
that a cricketer must play in the first year after he has ceased to reside
in a County in order to be qualified to play the following season.
(b) A cricketer who has played for a County for three successive years is
qualified to play for that County for the rest of his cricket career, unless and until
he plays for some other County.
(c) A cricketer who has a residential qualification for a County and goes
abroad shall on his return retain his qualification if his residence is in that County,
and provided that he has not, during his absence, represented any British Dominion
or State.
Special Qualifications.
10 (a) A cricketer resident in England is qualified, subject to the provisions of
Rules 6, 8 and 12 (a), provided he has not represented any British Dominion,
Colony, Dependency or State, to play for a County under the following special
conditions:
A Cricketer with No Qualification for any County.
(i) If he has no qualification for any County in the First or Second-class
County competitions, he shall be eligible to play for that First or Second-class
County, the capital of which is nearest to the place of his birth (in England) or
residence.
A Cricketer unable to play for the County of his Birth and with no
alternative Qualification.
(ii) If his regular place of residence is at such a distance from the County
of his birth that, in the opinion of the M.C.C. to whom all such cases must be
referred for decision, he cannot reasonably play for that Counry, he shall be
eligible to play for that First or Second-class County the capiielof which is
nearest to his place of residence (in England), provided that he has no residential
qualification for another County, and that the consent of the County in which
he was born is first obtained. Such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Note 1.
It has been decided that for the purpose of this rule Wales is regarded
as part of England.
30
A Cricketer playing for the County in which his School is situated.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 7 (iii), a cricketer on leaving his
school shall be qualified to play for the County in which that school is situated
for three successive years only, immediately after leaving that school. It is
obligatory on a County wishing to play a cricketer under this rule to obtain the
permission of the County or Counties for which he already has a qualification.
(Rule 9 (b) shall not apply in such eases.)
Note 1.
This rule implies that a cricketer can play for the County for which
he is so qualified, in any or all of the three years immediately after he has
left the school.
TRANSFERS.
Cricketers engaged by or having played for a County within the
previous 24 Months.
11. (a) Should a cricketer who has been engaged by or played for a County
wi'hin the previous 24 months wish to qualify by residence for another County, he
must obtain a written consent, which must not be antedated, from the former
County His residential qualification shall not commence to run until he has
obtained this consent which shall not be unreasonably withheld, nor shall it
commence to run whilst a contract of service is in force.
A County wishing to engage or play a cricketer who is engaged by or has
played for another County within the previous 24 months, must give written
notice to the latter County before commencing negotiations with the cricketer.
Cricketer wishing to play for the County of his Birth.
(6) A cricketer who wishes to play for the County of his birth (see Rule 6) must
give written notice to any County for which he has played within the previous
24 months under his residential qualification.
Note 1.
A British Dominion or State shall, for the purpose of this rule, be regarded
as a County except that in such cases written consent must be obtained before
the residential qualification commences to run, irrespective of when a player
was so engaged or played.
APPEALS AND DECISIONS.
Doubtful Cases of Qualification.
12. (a) If required to do so, it is obligatory on the County for which a
cricketer wishes to play to prove his qualification to the satisfaction of the M.C.C.
Appeals.
(b) Any question arising under these rules shall be left to the decision of
the M.C.C., which shall be final.
Infringement of Rule 11.
(c) In the event of an infringement of Rule 11, the M.C.C. shall have special
authority to fix the date when the cricketer shall become qualified by residence,
or even debar permanently his so qualifying.
31
MINOR COUNTIES’ CRICKET
ASSOCIATION.
I.	The Association shall be called "The Minor Counties’ Cricket
Association.”
2.	All Counties not in the First Class (as classified by the M.C.C.) and the
Second Elevens of First-class Counties shall be eligible to join the Association.
and shall be entitled to compete in the Second Division of the County Cham-
pionship (the Minor Counties* Competition).
3.	The Officers of the Association shall consist of Chairman. Hon. Secretary
and the Representatives of the Minor Counties on the Advisory County Cricket
Committee, all of whom shall be ex officio members of the Committee.
4.	The Committee shall consist of the ex officio members and one repre-
sentative each from six Counties, together with any duly elected Life Member
5.	The Officers of the Association shall be elected and the Counties forming
the Committee chosen annually at the Annual Meeting.
6.	The Association shall have power to elect Life Members to the Committee.
7.	The Annual Meeting shall be held at Lord’s on the same day as the
Annual Meeting of County Secretaries.
A Special Meeting shall be called by the Hon. Secretary at the request of four
or more Counties. One month’s notice of every such Meeting shall be sent to
each County, and the notice shall contain the agenda of the Meeting.
8.	Only one representative from each County shall be entitled to vote at
General Meetings of the Association.
9.	Notices of Motions to be brought forward at the Annual Meeting shall
be sent to the Hon. Secretary before the end of October.
10.	A County desirous of entering the Competition for the first time shall
give notice to the Hon. Secretary before the end of the previous August.
11.	Every County shall play out and home two-day matches with at least
four other Counties.
In eases of emergency and in order to enable all Counties to obtain the
necessary number of qualifying matches prior to the >\nnual Meeting in each
year, the Committee may, after consultation with County Secretaries, re-arrange
fixtures for this purpose.
12.	A County shall give 12 months’ previous notice in writing to the Hon.
Secretary and to their opponents of their intention to leave the Competition,
such notice to expire on the 30th day of September in any one year.
13.	The County which shall have obtained the greatest proportionate number
of points shall (in the absence of a challenge under Rule 16) be reckoned Champion
County of the Second Division.
14.	If two or more Counties shall have obtained the same proportion of
points, preference shall be given to that County which shall have won the greatest
number of completed matches.
15.	If two or more Counties shall have obtained the same proportion of
points and also won the same number of completed matches, their priority shall
be decided according to the net batting averages.
16.	If the two top Counties shall not have played each other, the second
County shall have the right to challenge the first to a three-day match, which
shall decide the Championship, and shall be played on a ground chosen by the
challenged County.
32
In the event of a challenge match, the winners shall be the Champion
County but in the event of a decision on the first innings only (the match not
being played as a one-day match) the points for a result on the first innings
shall be added in 'he table of results to those already gained by the respective
Counties, and their percentage re-calculated accordingly. If no result shall
have been attained in this match, the Championship shall be decided as if
there had been no challenge.
17.	In every* challenge match under Rule 16 the hours of play shall be those
in force for matches played in the First-class Competition. Each County shaJI
bear its own expenses and shall receive half the gross gate money, after deducting
the fees paid to the umpires and entertainment tax. Gross gate money shall be
regarded as the total sum paid for admission to the Ground by spectators as
distinct from admission to Stands.
18 Point, in the Competition shall be reckoned as follow* : Six points
shall be scored for a win in a completed two-day match and tor a win on the
first innings whin there is no play on the first day of a two-day match, provided
the match is not played out, when the match shall be played under the Rules of
Cricket for one day matches. Should c two-day match not be completed, the
side leading in the first innings shall sco’c thiee points and its opponents one
point. In the event of a tie* the points shall be divided. Matencs in which no
result shall have been attained shall not be included in the Table of Results.
• (See Law 2, Note (b).)
19.	Neutral umpires shall be provided for all matches in the Competition,
and the ariangcments for the selection and appointment of such umpires shall
be left to the Secretary of the M.C.C.
20.	The normal hours of play in the Competition shall be from 11.30 a.m.
to 7 p.m. on the first day, and from 11 a m. to 6 p.m. on the second day except
only that by agreement between Captains and when it is necessary to leave the
ground for Luncheon, the Luncheon Interval may be extended and the additional
time made up at the end of the day. The umpires shall be informed of such
extension before the Luncheon Interval The time for the Luncheon Interval
shall be left to the home Captain to decide before the day’s play commences.
An extra half hour shall be allowed on the second day of the match, if necessary.
on the demand of either side.
21.	Before and after the actual commencement of play the wicket may be
protected when necessary, and shall be protected every night if possible during
the continuance of a match, but the covering must not protect more than
3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the popping crease.
In the ease of matches played on First-class County Grounds, the wicket
shall be covered in accordance with the rules in force on that Ground.
22.	The result of each match in the Competition shall be telegraphed, and
the full score (with bowling analysis) shall be posted to the Hon. Secretary by the
home County immediately after its conclusion. This score shall for all purposes
be deemed the official score.
23.	All disputes arising out of the Laws of the Game shall be referred to the
M.C.C., whose decision shall be final.
24.	Should any matter arise not provided for in these Rules, the Committee
shall have power to deal with it.
25.	Except where they are inconsistent with the foregoing, the Rules governing
the matches of the First Division of the County Championship shall apply.
26.	These Rules shall not be altered except at a General Meeting of the
Association.
33
INDEX TO THE LAWS
OF CRICKET.
	Panes	Laws.	Notes.
z\dvisory County Cricket Committee :			
Constitution of ..	26		
Purpose of	26		
Rules for	26		
Artificial Drying of Wickets and Ground :			
Duties of Groundman	21		
Duties of Umpires	21		
Bails, The : See “ WICKETS ”			
Blown off by wind	4,7		6 (c), 13 (c) (i)
Ball, The :			
Captains to approve in County Cricket	4		4(c)
New ball, batsman to be informed re	4		4(6)
New ball, when allowed	4	4	4(6)
Replacement of damaged ball	4		4(a)
Replacement of “ lost ” ball ..	12		34(a)
Weight and size of	4	4	
Bat, The :			•
Practice with, during game, illegal	8	18	
Size of . .	4	5	
Batsman, The :			
Breaking wicket while running	10		25 (d)
Knocking ball back to bowler .	11		27 (6)
“ Out of his ground ” ..	8	19	19(a)
Position after crossing, etc. .. 12,	13, 17		32 (a), 41 (a), 49 (6
Retiring ..	13	36	36 (a)
Substitute not to bat	13		37 (J)
To meet out-coming batsman outside			
pavilion	16		45 (a)
To stand on side of wicket as directed			
by the bowler	7	15	
Batsman is “out ” :			
(1) THE STRIKER :			
“ Bowled ’’	9	21	21 (a)
Ball kicked on to wicket	9		21 (6)
“ Caught”	9	22	22 (a) (6) (g)
After hitting ball twice ..	9		22(c)
Ball hits pad	9		22 (d)
Ball “ hugged to body ’’ of catcher ..	9		22(f)
Ball lodging in catcher’s clothing, etc.	9		22 (/)
Ball over boundary	15		44 (a)
Off tree, etc.	9		22(e)
“ Hit the ball tw'ce ” ..	10, 11	27	27 (a) (6) (d)
“ Hit wicket ” ..	6, 10	25	12 (J), 25 (a) to (d)
Hat, etc., falling on wicket	10		25(6)
“ Leg before wicket ” ..	10	24	24(a)to(/) .
“ Obstructing the field ”	10	26	26 (a) (6)
" Stumped ”	6, 8, 9	23	12(«/),20(6)23 (a)(6)
34
	Pages.	Laws.	Notes.
(2) EITHER BATSMAN :			
** Handled the ball ”	6, 11	29	12 (rf)
Infringement of Laws by substitute	13	40	
“ Obstructing the field ”	6. 11	30	12 (O, 30 (a)
“ Run out ”	6, 11	28	12 (d). 28 (a) to (d)
By bowler before delivery	12	35	35 (b) (c)
Of striker off “ no ball "	7, 11	16, 28	16 (a)
Of striker who has a runner	13	39	39 (a) (6)
Which batsman is ** out ”	11	31	
Board of Control of Test Matches :			
Constitution of ..	23		
Rules for Test Matches	23		
Boundaries :			
Ball “ dead ” when touching . .	15		44 (6)
Ball hitting or being carried over	15		44 (a)
Fieldsman causing ball to reach	16		44 (/i)
Fieldsman touching	15		44 (a)
Hits over	15		44(/)
How signalled	20		
Obstructions on field of play	15		44 (c) (e>
Overthrow reaching	16		44 (0
Runs to be scored	15, 16		44 (g) (/») (0
Umpires to arrange and adjudge	15	44	44 (d)
•Bowled ’’ : See " BATSMAN IS ‘ OUT.	••		
Bowler, The :			
Ball ceases to be “ dead ”	12		35 (//)
Changing ends .	7	14	
Changing from over to round wicket, etc.	7		13(g)
Consecutive overs not allowed	7	14	
Correct delivery by	6	10, 11	11 (a) (c)
Dropping ball prior to delivery	6, 7		11 (d), 13 (c) (ii)
Not allowed trial balls . .	8	18	18 (a)
** Running out ” batsman before			
delivering ball.	12	35	35 (Z>) (c)
Substitute not to bowl	13		37 (rf)
Unable to complete ’* over ” ..	7		I3(/)
Unfair practices by	14		43 (a) (v) (vi)
*• Bye ” :			
Definition of	8	17	
How signalled	20		
M Caught ” : See “ BATSMAN IS * OUT.’	••		
Classification of Matches, and Counties	27		
County Cricket :			
Balls to be approved by Captains	4		4 (c)
Classification of Counties	27		
County boundaries	28		
County Championship ..	27		
Definition of first-class fixture	27		
New ball, when allowed	4		4 (6)
Number of first-class and minor counties	27		
Qualification of players in	27		
Rules of ..	27		
Umpires to report incidents, etc.	14		43 (a) (iii)
35
Creases, The : See ” WICKETS ”	Pages.	Laws.	Notes.
* Dead " Ball : Ball ceases to be “ dead ”	12		35 (A)
Ball not “ dead ”	12		35 (e)
Fieldsman wilfully stopping ball irregularly	13	41	
General rules	12		35(d)
Lodging in clothing of batsman or umpire 1.	12	33B	35 (OU)
'* Lost ball "	12	34	
When batsman is ” out ”	12	33A	
When finally settled in hand of wicket- keeper or bowler	7. 12	35	13(a), 35(a)
When “ over ” called	17	50	
Declaration ” : Sec “ GAME,” etc. ” Fieldsman, The : Legal method of stopping ball	13	41	
Making a catch ..	9		22 (a)(h)(/)U)
Penalty for irregular fielding ..	13	41	41 (a)
First-class Matches : See " CLASSIFICATION OF MATCHES, etc.”
“ Follow On ’’ : See “ GAME," etc.
Game, The Conduct of the :
Captains to inspect score sheets	20
Choice of innings Commencement of Continuation of play optional after match is finished	3 1 8 18 3 2(a)
Controlled by umpires . . Criticism, etc., of umpires Curtailment of duration of match	3 3 3 (e) 14 43 (a) (ii) (iii) 18 55
“ Declaration,” rules for ” Follow on,” rules for.. .. ..17, “ Innings ”	18 54, 55 54 (a) to (d) 18 53, 55 3 1
Intervals to be allowed .. 16, Lists of players to be exchanged	18 45 45 (a) (c), 54 (a) (6) 13 37(h)
Penalty for side refusing to play Position of batsmen after crossing, etc. 12.	16 45 45 (h) 13 32 (a), 41(a)
Result .. .. .. .. .. 3. Side batting with full strength Sides, composition of . . “ Time ” .. .. . . .. 3 Ground, The : Artificial drying of Batsman patting pitch .. Changing pitch .. Covering permitted	18 2 2(h), 54(d) 13 37 (h) 3 1 7 3 (c), 13 (e) 21 5 9 4 6 5 9(c)
Fitness of, for play .. .. . .J 14. Mowing in week-end match Rolling, watering, covering, mowing and	15 43 43 (h) (i) to (iv) 5 9(h)
beating of pitch during match Selection and preparation of wicket . Special provision for rolling in	5 9 9 (a) (ii), (h) 5 9 (a) (i)
Australia, etc. Supervision of rolling by umpires	5 9* 9* (a) 5 9 (a) (n)
Use of sawdust . .	5 9 9 (d)
36
	Pages.	Laws.	Notes.
“ Ground, Out of His ” : See “ BATSMAN ”			
“ Handled the Ball ” : Sec “BATSMAN IS	‘OUT		
•• Hit Wicket ” : See “ BATSMAN IS ‘ OUT ’ ”			
Imperial Cricket Conference :			
Constitution of ..	22		
Meetings of	22		
Qualification of players	22		
Rules for			
Rules for Test Matches			
Voting	22		
Intervals : See “ GAME," etc.			
“ Leg Before Wicket ” : See “ BATSMAN	IS •OUT*”		
“ Leg Bye ” :			
Definition of	8	17	
How signalled ..	20		
Striker kicking ball wilfully	8		17(a)
Light	15		43 (6)(v)
“ Lost Ball ” :			
Definition of	12	34	
Replacement of ball lost	12		34 (a)
Luncheon' Interval	16		45 (c)
Match :			
Definition of	3	1	
See also under “ GAME,” etc.			
Minor Counties’ Cricket Association :			
Rules of	31		
•* No Ball ” :			
Bowler breaking wicket at his end	6		11 (6)
Bowler changing delivery without notice	7		13(g)
Bowler throwing at wicket	6. 12	35	10 (a), 35 (r)
Definition of .. .. .. 6. 7. 17		10. II	13(g)
		48	
Entry of, in score sheet..	20		
How signalled	20		
Not to count in “ over ” .. 6.	7. 8	13	13 (b), 16 (b)
Position of bowler’s feet	6	11	11 (a) (c)
Scoring off	7, 8	16	16(b)
Striker can be “ out ” off	7	16	16(a)
To be called on delivery	17	48A	48A (a)
“ Obstructing the Field ” : Sec “ BATSMAN IS		OUT’	»»
Ono-Day Matches :			
Laws and rules for	IS		
Over, The :			
Ball not to count in	7		13 (c)
Definition of	6	13	
Eight balls to, in Australia, etc.	6	13	
“ No ball ” and “ wide ” not to count in	6. 7	13	13 (b)
Rules for last “ over ” before intervals	7		13 (c)
Umpire and not scorer to call	6. 7	13	13 (J)
When to be called	6. 7	13	13(a)(/)
Overthrows :			
After ball hit twice	11		27 (c)
Reaching boundary, runs to be scored	16		44 (»)
37
“ Pitch, The " : See " WICKETS ”	Pages.	Laws.	Notes.
Rules of County Cricket :			
Alterations to Appeals and decisions .. County boundaries	27 30 28		
Qualification of players—			
Birth 	 28 Residential .. .. 28 Special .. .. .. .. 29 Registration of players .. .. .. 27 Transfer of players .. .. .. 30 “ Run Out ” : See BATSMAN IS ‘ OUT ’ ”			
•Scorers :			
Appointment and duties of .	3	3	
Consultation with umpires Not to call “ over”	20 7		13(d)
Not to dictate to umpires	3,20		3 CD
To acknowledge signals of umpires To check score sheets ..	20 20		
Scoring :			
Batsman retiring	13		36 (a)
Boundaries	15. 16	44	44 (d)(/)to
“ Byes ” ..	8	17	
“ Handled the ball ”	11		29(a)
“ Leg Byes ”	8	17	17(a)
“ Lost Ball ”	12	34	
Method of entering “ no balls ” and			
“ wides ” '* No balls ”	20 7, 8	16	13 (£>), 16 (6)
No runs allowed when “ catch ” is made	12	32	
Notes for scorers and umpires “ Obstructing the field ”	20 10		26 (6)
Oil ball not reaching striker ..	6		12(a)
'* Overthrows ” ...	8. 11		16(c), 27 (c)
Penalties . .	3, 13	2, 41	41 (a)
“ Run out ”	12	32	
Runs	3	2	
“ Short runs ” . .	17	49	49 (c)
“ Wides ” 		7, 8	16	13 (6), 16(c)
Single Wicket :			
Special Rules .. 19 “ Stumped See “ BATSMAN IS ’ OUT ’ ”			
Stumps, The : See “ WICKETS ” Substitutes :			
Circumstances under which allowed . .	13	37	37 (a)
Infringement of laws by	13	40	
Not to bat or bowl	13		37(d)
Opposite side to agree to substitute and			
his position in field	13	38	
Player can bowl after substitute			
has run for him	13		37 (c) *
Running out of striker ..	13	39	39 (a) (6) 0
Side batting with full strength	13		37 (6)
38
’ Tie ’’ Match	Pages	Laws.	Notes.
Definition of	3		2 (6)
Tossinc for Choice of “ Innings ”	3	1	
Trial Balls Not Allowed	8	18	18 (a)
Umpires. Their Duties, etc. : Appeals :			
After “ over ” called	17	50	50 (a)
Decision to be made clear to			
batsman ..	16		46 (c)
Form of	16		46 (a)
Necessary before giving batsman			
“ out ” ..	16	46	
Not allowed after “ time ” has been			
called	17		50 (b)
Not to be influenced by appeals,			
opinions or tricks	14		43 (a) (ii)
Not to interfere save on appeal 3,	14, 16		3 (d), 43 (a) (i) 46(c)
Unsuccessful, no bar to further			
appeal	16		47 (fl)
Appointment of	3	3	3 (a)
Ball unfit for play or " lost ” ..	4, 12		4 (a), 34 (a)
Ball, when “ finally settled ” ..	.’2		35 (a)
Betting by, not allowed	17	51	
Calling necessary in addition to			
signalling	16		46 (6)
Calling “ no ball ” .. 6, 7,	14, 17	10, 48 48A	11 (fl) (6) (c), 13 (g) 43 (a) (iv) 48A («)
Calling “ one short ” ..	17	49	49 (a) (c)
Calling “ over ”	6, 7	13	13 (a) (</) (e)(/)
Calling “ play ”	8	18	
Calling “ time ”	7, 17		13 (c), 50 (6)
Calling “ wide ”	6, 17	I2.48A	12(a) (6)
Changing or dismissal of	17	52	
Consultation between Consultation with scorers	16 20	47	47 (b)
Control of game and ground ..	3, 15	' 44	3 (c)
Criticism of, by players	14		43 (a) (iii)
Decisions, altering	16		46 (J)
Decisions re batsman being “ out ” :	See ” BATSMAN IS * OUT		
Disagreement of Duties in respect of artificial drying of wickets, etc		14 21	43	-
Duties in respect of fitness of ground,			
weather and light	14, 15	43	43 (b) (i) to (v)
Fair and unfair play	14	43	43 (fl)
Inspection of implements, etc.	3		3 (e)
Intervals to be observed	16	45	45 (b) (c)
Jurisdiction of .. Notes for scorers and umpires	6, 16 20	47	11 (e), 46 (a)
Position during play	3, 15	44	3(6)
Reporting before play ..	3		3(e)
Reporting incidents	14		43 (a) (iii)
Revoking call of “ no ball ” .. Scorers to answer signals of ..	17 20		48A (fl)
Scorers to be directed by Sanais, code of .. To determine disputes ..	3, 20 20		3 CD
	14	43	
To fix boundaries	15, 16	44	44 (a) to (D
39
	Pages.	Laws.	Notes
To supervise rolling and mowing	5		9 (a) (ii) (6)
Unfair practices	14, 17	43,48	43 (a) (v) (vi)
Watch or clock, to be agreed upon .. Wicket not to be remade till ball is	3		3(c)
“ dead ”	9		20(7)
Weather Wicket “Down ” :	15		43 (6) (v)
Definition of	8, 9	20	20 (a) to (d), 21 (a)
When bails dispensed with	9		20 (c)
Re-making wicket	9		20(7)
Wicket-Keeper, The :			
Not to incommode striker	14	42	
Position of	14	42	
Taking ball in front of wicket	14	42	42 (a)
Wickets, The :			
Bails, use of, dispensed with Beating of ground—see “ GROUND ”	4		6(c)
Bowling crease ..	4	7	
Changing pitch during match .. Covering—see “ GROUND ”	4	6	
Length of pitch Mowing—see “ GROUND ”	4	6	
Popping crease ..	5, 8	8, 19	8 (a), 19 (a)
Return crease	4	7	7 (fl)
Rolling—see “ GROUND ” Selection and preparation of	5		9 (fl) (i)
Stumps and bails, size, etc.	4	6	6 (a) (b)
Umpires to inspect Watering—see “ GROUND”	3, 15	44	3(c)
“ Wide ” :			
Ball not “ dead ”	6		12(d)
Ball not reaching striker	6		12(a)
Definition of	6	12	12(a)
Entry of, in score sheet..	20		
How batsman can be out off ..	6		12(d)
How signalled	20		
Ignored if ball hit	6		12(6)
Not to count in “ o,ver ” Position of batsman when one run is	6, 7	13	13(6)
made ..	6		12(c)
Scoring off To be called as soon as ball passes	7, 8	16	16(c)
wicket	17	48A	