7/7 'QS~4- .
1947 Cpde—2nd Edition, 1952.
Tl ■ >0 - IO+ f>
WO Hit?
THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
OFFICIAL
Price : ONE SHILLING, Net
■
I I
Alterations and amendments, 5th May, 1954
LAW 19.
Delete Notes 1-4 and insert :
Note I.—If while the ball is in play, the batsmen have crossed
in running, neither returns to the wicket he has left except in the
case of a boundary hit, or under Laws 30 Note 1 and 46 Note 4
(vii). This rule applies even should a short run have been called,
or should no run be reckoned as in the case of a catch.
Note 2.—A run is “ short ” if either, or both, batsmen fail to
make good their ground in turning for a further run.
Although such a “ short ” run shortens the succeeding one,
'e latter, if completed, counts. Similarly a batsman taking
nee in front of his popping crease may run from that point
tout penalty.
e 3.—(i) One run only is deducted if both batsmen are
rt in one and the same run.
,.i) Only if three or more runs are attempted can more than
Ac run be “short” and then, subject to (i) above, all runs so
called shall be disallowed.
Note 4.—An umpire signals “ short ” runs when the ball
becomes “ dead ” by bending his arm upwards to touch the
shoulder with the tips of his fingers. If there has been more than
one “ short ” run the umpires must instruct the scorers as to the
number of runs disallowed. (Sec Note 1 to Law 4.)
Alterations and amendments, 5th May, 1954
LAW 30.
In the fourth line of the Law insert after “ his hand ” the words
“ holding the bat ”.
Note 1.—Delete “and shall immediately call ‘ Dead Ball’”
and insert the words “ and as soon as he is satisfied that the
fielding side have no chance of dismissing either batsman as
an immediate result of such action, he shall without delay call
‘ Dead Ball
Alterations and amendments, 5th May, 1954
LAW 31.
Delete the third line of the Law and insert the words “ top of
the stumps or, if both bails be oft'”.
Note 2.—Add the words “ or to strike any of the three stumps
out of the ground ”.
THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
(1947 Code—2nd Edition)
OFFICIAL
London
Marylebone Cricket Club
1952
World Copyright Reserved
PREFACE.
During the last two hundred years the conduct of the game of
Cricket has been governed by a scries of Codes of Laws. These
Codes were established as indicated below, and were at all times
subject to additions and alterations ordained by the governing
authorities of the time. Since its formation in 1787 the Marylcbonc
Cricket Club has been recognised as the sole authority for drawing
up the Code and for all subsequent alterations.
There is little doubt that Cricket was subject to recognised rules
as early as 1700, though the earliest known Code is that drawn up
in 1744 by certain Noblemen and Gentlemen who used the Artillery
Ground in London. These Laws were revised in 1755 by “ Several
Cricket-Clubs, particularly that of the Star and Garter in Pall-Mall.”
The next arrangement was produced by “ a Committee of Noble
men and Gentlemen of Kent, Hampshire, Surry, Sussex, Middlesc;
and London,” at the Star and Garter on February 25th, 1774, an<
this in turn was revised by a similar body in February, 1786.
On May 30th, 1788, the first M.C.C. Code was adopted, and
remained in force until May 19th, 1835, when a new Code of Laws
was approved by the Committee. The Laws appear to have been
first numbered in 1823.
The 1835 Code, amended in detail from time to time, stood until
April 21st, 1884, when, after consultation with cricket clubs both
at home and overseas, important alterations were incorporated in a
new version adopted at a Special General Meeting of the M.C.C.
By 1939, these Laws supplemented as they had been by the in-
clusion of many definitions and interpretations in the form of notes,
were in need of revision, and immediately on the conclusion of the
World War the opinions of controlling Bodies and Clubs throughout
the world were sought, with the result that the present code was
adopted at a Special General Meeting of the M.C.C. on May 7th,
1947.
This revision in the main aimed at the clarification and better
arrangement of the previous Laws and their interpretations, but
did not exclude certain definite alterations designed firstly to provide
greater latitude in the conduct of the game as required by the widely
differing conditions in which it is played, and secondly to eliminate
certain umpiring difficulties.
This, the second edition of the 1947 Code, contains no alterations
to the Laws, but certain corrections and a few additions to the Notes
have been made.
2
Under the Rules of the Marylcbone Cricket Club the Laws of
Cricket can only be changed by the vote of two-thirds of the mem-
bers present and voting at a Special General Meeting, of which due
notice is required to be given.
From time to time the Committee of the M.C.C. are required to
give interpretations on points of difficulty arising from the Laws,
and these arc given in the form of notes to the Laws themselves.
The primary purpose of the book as expressed by the late Sir
Francis Lacey (Secretary of the M.C.C. from 1898 to 1926) remains
unchanged :—
“ The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties, which are
known to exist, although they arc not always apparent. Hundreds
of cases are sent to the M.C.C. for decision every year. It is from
this source that the chief difficulties have become manifest. Satur-
day and League Matches arc especially productive of disputes, and
it is hoped that those who read these notes may find an answer to
any doubt which may arise as to the proper interpretation of the
Laws of Cricket.”
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
London, N.W.8.
] st July, 1952.
R. S. RAIT KERR,
Secretary, M.C.C.
CONTENTS.
Page
Preface .. .. .. .. 1
The Laws of Cricket .. 3
A.	The Players, Umpires and Scorers .. .. 3
B.	The Implements of the Game, and the Ground . . 4
C.	The Care and Maintenance of the Pitch . . 5
D.	The Conduct of the Game .. 7
E.	Duties of the Umpires .. 18
Notes for Scorers and Umpires .. .. .. 22
Regulations for drying wickets in the United Kingdom . . 23
Index .. .. .. .. .. .. 25
3
THE LAWS OF CRICKET.
(A)—THE PLAYERS, UMPIRES, AND SCORERS
SIDES.
1.—A match is played between two sides of eleven players each,
unless otherwise agreed. Each side shall play under a Captain who
before the toss for innings shall nominate his players who may not
thereafter be changed without the consent of the opposing Captain.
NOTES.
1.—If a captain is not available at any time, a deputy must act
for him to deal promptly with points arising from this and other
Laws.
2.—No match in which more than eleven players a side take par
can be regarded as First-class, and in any case no side should hek
with more than eleven players.
SUBSTITUTES.
2.—A Substitute shall be allowed to field or run between the wickets
for any player who may during the match be incapacitated from illness
or injury, but not for any other reason without the consent of the
opposing Captain ; no Substitute shall be allowed to bat or to bowl.
Consent as to the person to act as substitute in the field shall be obtained
from the opposing Captain, who may indicate positions in which the
Substitute shall not field.
NOTES.
1.—A player may bat, bowl or field even though a substitute has
acted for him previously.
2.—An injured batsman may be “ Out ” should his runner
infringe Laws 36, 40 or 41. As Striker he remains himself subject
to the Laws ; should he be out of his ground for any purpose he
may be “ Out ” under Laws 41 and 42 at the wicket-keeper’s end,
irrespective of the position of the other batsman or the substitute
when the wicket is put down. When not the Striker the injured
batsman is out of the game and stands where he does not interfere
with the play.
THE APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES.
3.—Before the toss for innings two Umpires shall be appointed,
one for each end to control the game as required by the Laws with
absolute impartiality. No Umpire shall be changed during a match
without the consent of both Captains.
4
NOTE.
1.—The umpires should report themselves to the executive of the
ground 30 minutes before the start of each day’s play.
THE SCORERS.
4.—All runs scored shall be recorded by Scorers appointed for the
purpose ; the Scorers shall accept and acknowledge all instructions
and signals given to them by the Umpires.
NOTE.
1.—The umpires should wait until a signal has been answered by
a scorer before allowing the game to proceed. Mutual consultation
between the scorers and the umpires to clear up doubtful points is
at all times permissible.
(B)—THE IMPLEMENTS OF THE GAME, AND THE
GROUND
THE BALL.
5.—The Ball shall weigh not less than 5 J ounces, nor more than
52 ounces. It shall measure not less than 8ti? inches, nor more than
9 inches in circumference. Subject to agreement to the contrary
either Captain may demand a new ball at the start of each innings.
In the event of a ball being lost or becoming unfit for play, the Umpires
shall allow another ball to be taken into use. They shall inform the
Batsmen whenever a ball is to be changed.
NOTES. 9
1.—All cricket balls used in First-class matches should be ap-
proved before the start of a match by the umpires and captains.
The latter may demand a new ball at the start of each innings.
2.—Except in the United Kingdom, or if local regulations provide
otherwise, after 200 runs have been made off a ball in First-class
matches, the captain of the fielding side may demand a new one.
]n First-class matches in the United Kingdom the fielding side may
demand a new ball after 65 (6 ball) overs have been bowled with the
old one. In other grades of cricket these regulations will not apply
unless agreed before the toss for innings.
3.—Any ball substituted for one lost or becoming unfit for play
should have had similar wear or use as that of the one discarded.
THE BAT.
6.—The Bat shall not exceed 42 inches in the widest part ; it shall
not be more than 38 inches in length.
THE PITCH.
7.—The Pitch is deemed to be the area of ground between the
bowling creases, 5 feet in width on either side of the line joining the
centre of the wickets. Before the toss for innings, the executive of
5
the ground shall be responsible for the selection and preparation of
the Pitch ; thereafter the Umpires shall control its use and maintenance.
The Pitch shall not be changed during a match unless it becomes unfit
for play, and then only with the consent of both Captains.
THE WICKETS.
8.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each
other at a distance of 22 yards from stump to stump. Each Wicket
shall be 9 inches in width and consist of three stumps with two bails
upon the top. The stumps shall be of equal and of sufficient size to
prevent the ball from passing through, with their top 28 inches above
the ground. The bails shall be each 42 inches in length, and, when
in position on the top of the stumps, shall not project more than J inch
above them.
NOTES.
1.—Except for the bail grooves the tops of the stumps shall be
dome-shaped.
2.—In a high wind the captains may agree, with the approval ol
the umpires, to dispense with the use of bails (see Law 31, Note 3).
THE BOWLING AND POPPING CREASES.
9.—The Bowling crease shall be in line with the stumps ; 8 feet
8 inches in length ; the stumps in the centre ; with a Return crease
at each end at right angles behind the wicket. The Popping crease
shall be marked 4 feet in front of and parallel with the Bowling crease.
Both the Return and Popping creases shall be deemed unlimited in
length.
NOTE.
1.—The distance of the Popping Crease from the wicket is
measured from a line running through the centre of the stumps to
the inside edge of the crease.
(C)—THE CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE
PITCH
ROLLING, MOWING AND WATERING.
10.—Unless permitted by special regulations, the Pitch shall not be
rolled during a match except before the start of each innings and of
each day's play, when, if the Captain of the batting side so elect, it
may be swept and rolled for not more than 7 minutes. The Pitch
shall not be mown during a match unless special regulations so provide.
Under no circumstances shall the Pitch be watered during a match.
NOTES.
1.—“Special Regulations,’’ within the framework of the Laws,
referred to in this and subsequent Laws are those authorised by
M.C.C. in respect of County Cricket, or by Overseas Governing
6
Bodies in respect of cricket in the countries concerned. Such
Regulations do not apply to matches played by touring teams unless
included in these Notes and Interpretations of the Official Laws, or
unless agreed to by both parties ocforc the visiting team arrives.
2.—The umpires arc responsible that any rolling permitted by
this Law and carried out at the request of the captain of the batting
side, is in accordance with the regulations laid down and that it is
completed so as to allow play to start at the stipulated lime.
The normal rolling before the start of each day’s play shall take
place not earlier than half an hour before the start of play, but the
captain of the batting side may delay such rolling until 10 minutes
before the start of play should he so desire.
3.—The time allowed for rolling shall be taken out of the normal
playing time if a captain declare an innings closed either, (a) before
play starts on any day so late that the other captain is prevented
from exercising his option in regard to rolling under this Law, or
(b) during the luncheon interval later than 15 minutes after the start
of such interval.
4.—In Australia, South Africa, the West Indies, and New Zealand,
Sat any time a rain affected pitch is damaged by play thereon, it
tall be swept and rolled for a period of not more than ten consecu-
ve minutes at any time between the close of play on the day on
■vhich it was damaged and the next resumption of play, provided
that
(i)	The umpires shall instruct the groundman to sweep and roll
the pitch only after they have agreed that damage caused to
it as a result of play after rain has fallen warrants such rolling
additional to that provided for in Law 10.
(ii)	Such rolling shall in all cases be done under the personal
supervision of both umpires and shall take place at such time
and with such roller as the groundman shall consider best
calculated to repair the damage to the pitch.
(iii)	Not more than one such additional rolling shall be permitted
as a result of rain on any particular day.
(iv)	The rolling provided for in Law 10, to take place before the
start of play, shall not be permitted on any day on which the
rolling herein provided for takes place within two hours of
the time appointed for commencement of play on that day.
5.—The pilch shall be mown under the supervision of the umpires
before play begins on alternate days after the start of a match, but
should the pitch not be so mown on any day on account of play
not taking place, it shall be mown on the first day on which the
match is resumed and thereafter on alternate days. (For the
purpose of this rule a rest day counts as a day).
7
COVERING THE PITCH.
11.—The Pitch shall not be completely covered during a match
unless special regulations so provide ; covers used to protect the
bowlers’ run up shall not extend to a greater distance than 3* feet in
front of the Popping creases.
NOTE.
1.—It is usual under this Law to protect the bowlers’ run up,
before and during a match, both at night and, when necessary,
during the day. The covers should be removed early each morning,
if fine.
MAINTENANCE OF THE PITCH.
12.—The Batsman may beat the Pitch with his bat, and Players
may secure their footholds by the use of sawdust, provided Law 46 be
not thereby contravened. In wet weather the Umpires shall sec that
the holes made by the Bowlers and Batsmen are cleaned out and dried
whenever necessary to facilitate play.
(D)—THE CONDUCT OF THE GAME
INNINGS.
13.—Each side has two innings, taken alternately, except in the
case provided for in Law 14. The choice of innings shall be decided
by tossing on the field of play.
NOTES.
1.—The captains should toss for innings not later than 15 minutes
before the time agreed upon for play to start. The winner of the
toss may not alter his decision to bat or field once it has been
notified to the opposing captain.
2.—This Law also governs a One-day match in which play
continues after the completion of the first innings of both sides.
(See also Law 22.)
FOLLOWING INNINGS.
14.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in a match of
three days or more, by 100 runs in a two-day match, or by 75 runs in
a one-day match, shall have the option of requiring the other side to
follow their innings.
DECLARATIONS.
15.—The Captain of the Batting side may declare an innings closed
in a match of three days or more, at any time on the second and
succeeding days ; in a two-day match, at any time but on the first
day not later than 1 hour and 40 minutes before the hour agreed on
for drawing stumps ; in a one-day match, at any time.
16.—When the start of play is delayed by weather Laws 14 and 15
shall apply in accordance with the number of days’ play remaining
from the actual start of the match.
8
START AND CLOSE OF PLAY AND INTERVALS.
17.—The Umpires shall allow such intervals as have been agreed
upon for meals, 10 minutes between each innings and not more than
2 minutes for each fresh batsman to come in. At the start of each
innings and of each day’s play and at the end of any interval the
Umpire at the Bowler’s end shall call “ Play ”, when the side refusing
to play shall lose the match. After “ Play ” has been called no trial
ball shall be allowed to any player, and when one of the Batsmen is
out the use of the bat shall not be allowed to any player until the next
Batsman shall come in.
NOTES.
1.—The umpires shall not award a match under this Law unless
(i)	“ Play ” has been called in such a manner that both sides can
clearly understand that play is to start, (ii) an appeal has been
made, and (iii) they are satisfied that a side will not, or cannot,
continue play.
2.—It is an essential duty of the captains to ensure that the “ in-
going ” batsman passes the “out-coming” one before the latter
leaves the field of play. This is all the more important in view of
the responsibility resting on the umpires for deciding whether or
not the delay of the individual amounts to a refusal of the batting
side to continue play.
3.—The interval for luncheon should not exceed 45 minutes unless
otherwise agreed, (but sec Law 10, Note 3). In the event of the
last wicket falling within 2 minutes of the time arranged for luncheon
or tea, the game shall be resumed at the usual hour, no allowance
being made for the 10 minutes between the innings.
4.—Bowling practice on the pitch is forbidden at any time during
the game.
18.—The Umpires shall call “ Time ”, and at the same time remove
the bails from both wickets, on the cessation of play before any
arranged interval, at the end of each day’s play, and at the conclusion
of the match. An “ Over ” shall always be started if “ Time ” has
not been reached, and shall be completed unless a batsman is “ Out ”
or “ Retires ” within 2 minutes of the completion of any period of
play, but the “ Over ” in progress at the close of play on the final day
of a match shall be completed at the request of cither Captain even if
a wicket fall after “ Time ” has been reached.
SCORING.
19.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored :—
1st.—So often as the Batsman after a hit, or at any time while the
ball is in play, shall have crossed and made good their ground from
end to end ; but if either Batsman run a short run, the Umpire
shall call and signal “ One short ” and that run shall not be scored.
9
The Striker being caught, no run shall be scored ; a Batsman being
run out, that run which was being attempted shall not be scored.
2nd.—For penalties under Laws 21, 27, 29, 44 and boundary allow-
ances under Law 20.
NOTES.
1.—If while the ball is in play, the batsmen have crossed in
running, neither returns to the wicket he has left except in the case
of a boundary hit, or under Laws 30 Note 1 and 46 Note 4 (vii).
This rule applies even should a short run have been called, or shouk
no run be reckoned as in the case of a catch.
2.—At his own risk the striker may take guard and play the ba
in front of the popping crease ; should he attempt to run from th;
point, the umpire does not call “ One short ”.
3.—If two or more runs arc attempted, only one run is deducted
on a call of “ One short,” even though both batsmen may have
failed to complete the same run, and although the failure of a
batsman to complete a run shortens the run immediately following.
4.—The umpire signals “ One short ” by bending an arm upwards
to touch the shoulder with the tips of the fingers.
BOUNDARIES.
20.—Before the toss for innings the Umpires shall agree with both
sides on the Boundaries for play, and on the allowances to be made
for them. An Umpire shall call or signal “ Boundary ” whenever, in
his opinion, a ball in play hits, crosses or is carried over the Boundary.
The runs completed at the instant the ball reaches the Boundary shall
count only should they exceed the allowance, but if the “ Boundary ”
result from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a fieldsman, any
runs already made and the allowance shall be added to the score.
NOTES.
1.—If flags or posts arc used to mark a boundary, the real or
imaginary line joining such points shall be regarded as the boundary,
which should be marked by a white line if possible.
2.—In deciding on the allowances to be made for boundaries the
umpires will be guided by the prevailing custom of the ground.
3.—It is a “ Boundary ” if the ball touches any boundary line or
if a fieldsman with ball in hand grounds any part of his person on
or over that line. A fieldsman, however, standing within the
playing area may lean against or touch a boundary fence in fielding
a ball (see also Law 35, Note 5).
4.—An obstacle, or person, within the playing area is not regarded
as a boundary unless so arranged by the umpires. The umpire is
not a boundary, but sight screens within the playing area shall be
so regarded.
10
5.—The customary allowance for a boundary is 4 runs, but it is
usual to allow 6 runs for all hits pitching over and clear of the
boundary line or fence (even though the ball has been previously
touched by a fieldsman). It is not usual to allow 6 runs when a
ball hits a sight screen full pitch, if the latter is on or inside the
boundary.
6.—In the case of a boundary resulting from cither an overthrow
or the wilful act of a fieldsman, the run in progress counts provided
that the batsmen have crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
7.—The umpire signals “ Boundary ” by waving an arm from
side to side, or a boundary “ 6 ” by raising both arms above the
head.
LOST BALL.
21.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered any Fieldsman
may call “ Lost Ball,” when 6 runs shall be added to the score ; but
if more than 6 have been run before “ Lost Ball *’ be called, as many
runs as have been run shall be scored.
THE RESULT.
22.—A match is won by the side which shall have scored a total of
runs in excess of that scored by the opposing side in its two completed
innings ; one-day matches, unless thus played out, shall be decided
by the first innings. A match may also be determined by being given
up as lost by one of the sides, or in the case governed by Law 17. A
match not determined in any of these ways, shall count as a “ Draw.”
NOTES.
1.—It is the responsibility of the captains to satisfy themselves
on the correctness of the scores on the conclusion of play.
2.—Neither side can be compelled to continue after a match is
finished ; a one-day match shall not be regarded as finished on the
result of the first innings if the umpires consider there is a prospect
of carrying the game to a further issue in the time remaining.
3.—The result of a finished match is stated as a win by runs,
except in the case of a win by the side batting last, when it is by
the number of wickets still then to fall. In a one-day match which
is not played out on the second innings, this rule applies to the
position at the time when a result on the first innings was reached.
4.—A “ Draw ” is regarded as a “ Tie ” when the scores are
equal at the conclusion of play but only if the match has been played
out. If the scores of the completed first innings of a one-day match
are equal, it is a ‘‘ Tic,” but only if the match has not been played
out to a further conclusion.
THE OVER.
23.—The ball shall be bowled from each wicket alternately in Overs
of either 8 or 6 balls according to the agreed conditions of play.
When the agreed number have been bowled and it has become clear
to the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket that both sides have ceased to
regard the ball as in play, the Umpire shall call “ Over ” in a distinct
manner before leaving the wicket. Neither a “ No Ball ” nor a
“ Wide Ball ” shall be reckoned as one of the “ Over.”
NOTE.
1.—In default of any agreement to the contrary, in the United
Kingdom the “ over” shall be 6 balls.
24.—A Bowler shall finish an “ Over ” in progress unless he be
incapacitated or be suspended for unfair play. He shall be allowed
to change ends as often as desired, provided only that he shall not
bowl two “ Overs ” consecutively in one innings. A Bowler may
require the Batsman at the wicket from which he is bowling to stand
on whichever side of it he may direct.
DEAD BALL.
25.—The ball shall be held to be “ Dead ”—on being in the opinion
of the Umpire finally settled in the hands of the Wicket-keeper or of
the Bowler ; or on reaching or pitching over the boundary ; or,
whether played or not, on lodging in the dress of either a Batsman or
Umpire ; or on the call of “ Over ” or “ Time ” by the Umpire ; or
on a Batsman being out from any cause ; or on any penalty being
awarded under Laws 21 or 44. The Umpire shall call “ Dead Ball ”
should he decide to intervene under Law 46 in a case of unfair play
or in the event of a serious injury to a player ; or should he require
to suspend play prior to the Striker receiving a delivery. The ball
shall cease to be “ Dead ” on the Bowler starting his run or bowling
action.
NOTES.
1.—Whether the ball is “finally settled” is a question of fact
for the umpire alone to decide.
2.—An umpire is justified in suspending play prior to the striker
receiving a delivery in any of the following circumstances :—
(i) If satisfied that, for an adequate reason, the striker is not
ready to receive the ball, and makes no attempt to play it.
(ii)	If the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery, or
if the ball does not leave his hand for any reason.
(iii)	If one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before he
receives the delivery.
In such cases the ball is regarded as “ Dead ’’ from the time it
last came into play.
3.—A ball does not become “ Dead ” when it strikes an umpire
(unless it lodges in his dress), when the wicket is broken or struck
down (unless a batsman is out thereby), or when an unsuccessful
appeal is made.
12
4.—For the purpose of this and other Laws, the term “ dress ”
includes the equipment and clothing of players and umpires as
normally worn.
NO BALL.
26.—For a delivery to be fair the ball must be bowled, not thrown
or jerked ; if cither Umpire be not entirely satisfied of the absolute
fairness of a delivery in this respect, he shall call and signal “No
Ball ’’ instantly upon delivery. The Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket
shall call and signal “ No Ball ” if he is not satisfied that at the instant
of delivery the Bowler has at least some part of one foot behind the
Bowling crease and within the Return crease, and not touching or
grounded over either crease.
NOTES.
1.—Subject to the provisions of the Law being complied with a
bowler is not debarred from delivering the ball with both feet behind
the bowling crease.
2.—The striker is entitled to know whether the bowler intends to
bowl over or round the wicket, overarm or underarm, right or left
handed. An umpire may regard any failure to notify a change in
he mode of delivery as “ unfair,” if so, he should call “No ball.”
3.—It is a “ No Ball ” if the bowler before delivering a ball
hrows it at the striker’s wicket even in an attempt to run him out
see Law 46, Note 4 (vii)).
4.—If a bowler break the near wicket with any part of his person
during the delivery, such act in itself does not constitute “ No Ball.”
5.—The umpire signals “ No Ball ” by extending one arm hori-
zontally.
6.—An umpire should revoke the call “ No Ball ” if the ball docs
not leave the bowler’s hand for any reason.
27.—The ball does not become “ Dead ” on the call of “ No Ball.”
The Striker may hit a “ No Ball ” and whatever runs result shall be
added to his score, but runs made otherwise from a “ No Ball ” shall
be scored “ No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run shall be so
scored. The Striker shall be out from a “ No Ball ” if he break Law
37, and either Batsman may be run out, or given out if he break Laws
36 or 40.
NOTES.
1.—The penalty for a “ No Ball ” is only scored if no runs result
otherwise.
2.—Law 46 Note 4 (vii) covers attempts to run before the ball is
delivered, but should the non-striker unfairly leave his ground too
soon, the fielding side may run out the batsman at the bowler’s end
by any recognised method. If the bowler throws at the near wicket,
the umpire docs not call “ No Ball,” though any runs resulting arc
so scored. The throw does not count in the “ Over.”
13
WIDE BALL.
28.—If the Bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so wide of the
wicket that in the opinion of the Umpire it passes out of reach of the
Striker, and would not have been within his reach when taking guard
in the normal position, the Umpire shall call and signal “ Wide Ball ”
as soon as it shall have pased the Striker.
NOTES.
1.—If a ball which the umpire considers to have been dclivcrc
comes to rest in front of the striker “ Wide ” should not be callee
and no runs should be added to the score unless they result from th.
striker hitting the ball which he has a right to do without interference
by the fielding side.
2.—The umpire signals “ Wide ” by extending both arms hori-
zontally.
3.—An umpire should revoke the call if the striker hits a ball
which has been called “ Wide.”
29.—The ball docs not become “ Dead ” on the call of ” Wide
Ball.” All runs that arc run from a “ Wide Ball ” shall be scored
“ Wide Balls,” or if no runs be made one run shall be so scored. The
Striker may be out from a “ Wide Ball ” if he break Laws 38 or 42,
and cither Batsman may be run out, or given out if he break Laws
36 or 40.
BYE AND LEG BYE.
30.—If the ball, not having been called “Wide” or “No Ball,”
pass the Striker without touching his bat or person, and any runs be
obtained, the Umpire shall call or signal “ Bye ” ; but if the ball
touch any part of the Striker's dress or person except his hand, and
any run be obtained, the Umpire shall call or signal “Leg Bye” ;
such runs to be scored “ Byes ” and “ Leg Byes ” respectively.
NOTES.
I.—The umpire shall regard the deliberate kicking or “ kneeing ”
of the ball by the striker as unfair, and shall immediately call
” Dead Ball ” in accordance with Law 25 : no runs shall be allowed.
2.—The umpire signals “ Bye ” by raising an open hand above
the head, and Leg Bye” by touching a raised knee with the hand.
THE WICKET IS DOWN.
31.—The wicket shall be held to be “ Down ” if either the ball or
the Striker's bat or person completely removes either bail from the
top of the stumps, or, if either or both of the bails be previously off,
strikes a stump out of the ground. Any player may use his hand or
arm to put the wicket down or, even should tbe bails be previously off,
may pull up a stump, provided always that the ball is held in the hand
or hands so used.
14
NOTES.
1.—A wicket is not “ down ” merely on account of the disturbance
of a bail, but it is “ down ” if a bail in falling from the wicket lodges
between two of the stumps.
2.—If one bail is off, it is sufficient for the purpose of this Law
to dislodge the remaining one in any of the ways stated.
3.—If, owing to the strength of the wind, the captains have agreed
to dispense with the use of bails (see Law 8, Note 2), the decision as
to when the wicket is “ down ” is one for the umpires to decide on
the facts before them. In such circumstances the wicket would be
held to be ” down ” even though a stump has not been struck out
of the ground.
4.—If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play, it is not the
umpire’s duty to remake the wicket until the ball has become
“ dead.” A fieldsman, however, may remake the wicket in such
circumstances.
5.—For the purpose of this and other Laws the term “ person ”
includes a player’s dress as defined in Law 25, Note 4.
OUT OF HIS GROUND.
32.—A Batsman shall be held to be “ Out of his ground ” unless
some part of his bat in hand or of his person be grounded behind the
line of the Popping Crease.
BATSMAN RETIRING.
33.—A Batsman may retire at any time, but may not resume his
innings without the consent of the opposing Captain, and then only
on the fall of a wicket.
NOTE.
1.—When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or some
other unavoidable cause, his innings is recorded as “ Retired, Not
out,” but otherwise as a completed innings to be recorded as
” Retired, Out.”
BOWLED.
34.—The Striker is out “ Bowled ”—If the wicket be bowled down,
even if the ball first touch his bat or person.
NOTE.
1.—The striker, after playing the ball, is out “ Bowled ” if he
then kicks or hits it on to his wicket before the completion of his
stroke.
2.—The striker is out “ Bowled ” under this Law when the ball
is deflected on to his wicket off his person, even though a decision
against him might be justified under Law 39 L.B.W.
15
CAUGHT.
35.—The Striker is out “ Caught ”—If the ball, from a stroke of
the bat or of the hand holding the bat, but not the wrist, be held by a
Fieldsman before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to the
body of the catcher, or be accidentally lodged in his dress. The
Fieldsman must have both his feet entirely within the playing area at
the instant the catch is completed.
NOTES.
1.—Provided the ball docs not touch the ground, the hand holding
it may do so in effecting a catch.
2.—The umpire is justified in disregarding the fact that the ball
has touched the ground, or has been carried over the boundary
provided that a catch has in fact been completed prior to such
occurrence.
3.—The fact that a ball has touched the striker’s person beforr
or after touching his bat docs not invalidate a catch.
4.—The striker may be “ Caught ” even if the fieldsman has n<
touched the ball with his hands, including the case of a ball lodgin
in the wicket-keeper’s pads.
5.—A fieldsman standing within the playing area may lean against
the boundary to catch a ball, and this may be done even if the ball
has passed over the boundary.
6.—If the striker lawfully plays the ball a second time he may be
out under this Law, but only if the ball has not touched the ground
since being first struck.
7.—The striker may be caught off any obstruction within the
playing area provided it has not previously been decided on as a
boundary.
HANDLED THE BALL.
36.—Either Batsman is out “ Handled the ball ”—If he touch it
while in play with his hands, unless it be done at the request of the
opposite side.
NOTES.
1.—A hand holding the bat is regarded as part of it for the
purposes of Laws 36, 37, and 39.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman is given
out under this Law is “ Handled the Ball,” and the bowler does not
get credit for the wicket.
HIT THE BALL TWICE.
37.—The Striker is out “ Hit the ball twice ”—If the ball be struck
or be stopped by any part of his person, and he wilfully strike it
again, except for the sole purpose of guarding his wicket, which he
may do with his bat or any part of his person, other than his hands.
No runs except those which result from an overthrow shall be scored
from a ball lawfully struck twice.
16
NOTES.
1.—It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball has been so
struck a second time legitimately or not. The umpire may regard
the fact that a run is attempted as evidence of the batsmen’s intention
to take advantage of the second stroke, but it is not conclusive.
2.—A batsman may not attempt to hit the ball twice, if in so
doing he baulks the wicket-keeper or any fieldsman attempting to
make a catch.
3.—This Law is infringed if the striker, after playing the ball
and without any request from the opposite side, uses his bat to
return the ball to a fieldsman.
4.—The correct entry in the score book when the striker is given
out under this Law is “ Hit the ball twice,” and the bowler does
not get credit for the wicket.
HIT WICKET.
38.—The Striker is out “ Hit wicket ”—If in playing at the ball
he hit down his wicket with his bat or any part of his person.
NOTES.
1.—The striker is “ Out ” under this Law if :—
(i)	In making a second stroke to keep the ball out of his wicket
he hits it down.
(ii)	While playing at the ball, but not otherwise, his wicket is
broken by his cap or hat falling, or by part of his bat.
2.—A batsman is not out for breaking the wicket with his bat or
person while in the act of running.
L.B.W.
39.—The Striker is out “ Leg before wicket If with any part of
his person except his hand, which is in a straight line between wicket
and wicket, even though the point of impact be above the level of the
bails, he intercept a ball which has not first touched his bat or hand,
and which, in the opinion of the Umpire, shall have, or would have,
pitched on a straight line from the Bowler’s wicket to the Striker’s
wicket, or shall have pitched on the off-side of the Striker’s wicket,
provided always that the ball would have hit the wicket.
NOTE.
1.—A batsman is only “Out” under this Law if al! the four
following questions arc answered in the affirmative.
(i)	Would the ball have hit the wicket ?
(ii)	Did the ball pitch on a straight line between wicket and
wicket (and this case includes a ball intercepted full pitch
by the striker), or did it pilch on the offside of the striker’s
wicket ?
(iii)	Was it part of the striker’s person other than the hand which
first intercepted the ball ?
17
(iv)	Was that part of the striker’s person in a straight line between
wicket and wicket at the moment of impact, irrespective of
the height of the point of impact ?
OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD.
40.—Either Batsman is out “ Obstructing the field ”—If he wilfully
obstruct the opposite side ; should such wilful obstruction by either
Batsman prevent a ball from being caught it is the Striker who is out.
NOTES.
1.—The umpire must decide whether the obstruction was “ wilful ”
or not. The involuntary interception by a batsman while running
of a throw in is not in itself an offence.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman is give
out under this Law is “ Obstructing the field,” and the bowler do<
not get credit for the wicket.
RUN OUT.
41.—Either Batsman is out “ Run out”—If in running or at any
time, while the ball is in play, he be out of his ground, and his wicket
be put down by the opposite side. If the batsmen have crossed each
other, he that runs for the wicket which is put down is out ; if they
have not crossed, he that has left the wicket which is put down is out.
But unless he attempt to run, the Striker shall not be given “ Run
out ” in the circumstances stated in Law 42, even should “ No Ball ”
have been called.
NOTE.
1.—If the ball is played on to the opposite wicket, neither batsman
is liable to be “ Run out ” unless the ball has been touched by a
fieldsman before the wicket is put down.
STUMPED.
42.—A striker is out “ Stumped If in receiving a ball, not
being a “ No Ball,” delivered by the Bowler, he be out of his ground
otherwise than in attempting a run, and the wicket be put down by
the Wicket-keeper without the intervention of another fieldsman.
Only when the ball has touched the bat or person of the Striker may
the Wicket-keeper take it in front of the wicket for this purpose.
NOTE.
1.—The striker may be ** Stumped ” if the wicket is broken by
a ball rebounding from the wicket-keeper’s person.
THE WICKET-KEEPER.
43.—The Wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket
until a ball delivered by the Bowler touches the bat or person of the
Striker, or passes the wicket, or until the Striker attempts a run.
Should the Wicket-keeper contravene this Law, the Striker shall not
be out except under Laws 36, 37, 40, and 41 and then only subject
to Law 46.
18
NOTE.
1.—This Law is provided to secure to the striker his right to play
the ball and to guard his wicket without interference from the
wicket-keeper. The striker may not be penalised if in the legitimate
defence of his wicket he interferes with the wicket-keeper, except as
provided for in Law 37, Note 2.
THE FIELDSMAN.
44.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person,
but if he wilfully stop it otherwise five runs shall be added to the run
or runs already made ; if no run has been made five shall be scored.
The penalty shall be added to the score of the Striker if the ball has
been struck, but otherwise to the score of Byes, Leg Byes, No Balls
or Widcs as the case may be.
NOTES.
1.—A fieldsman must not use his cap, etc., for the purpose of
fielding a ball.
2.—The five runs are a penalty and the batsmen do not change
ends.
(E)—DUTIES OF THE UMPIRES
45.—Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall acquaint them-
selves with any special regulations, and shall agree with both Captains
on any other conditions affecting the conduct of the match ; shall
satisfy themselves that the wickets arc properly pitched ; and shall
agree, between themselves on the watch or clock to be followed during
play.
NOTES.
1.—Apart from “Special Regulations” (see Law 10, Note 1).
other conditions of play within the framework of the Laws are
frequently necessary, e.g. Hours of play, Intervals, etc.
2.—The captains arc entitled to know which clock or watch will
be followed during play.
46.—Before and during a match the Umpires shall ensure that the
conduct of the game and the implements used are strictly in accordance
with the Laws ; they arc the sole judges of fair and unfair play, and
the final judges of the fitness of the ground, the weather and the light
for play in the event of the decision being left to them ; all disputes
shall be determined by them, and if they disagree the actual state of
things shall continue. The Umpires shall change ends after each side
has had one innings.
NOTES.
1.—An umpire should stand where he can best sec any act upon
which his decision may be required. Subject to this over-riding
19
consideration the umpire at the bowler’s end should stand where he
does not interfere with either the bowler’s run up or the striker’s
view. If the other umpire wishes to stand on the off instead of the
leg side of the pitch, he should obtain the permission of the captain
of the fielding side and inform the batsman.
2.—The umpires must not allow the attitude of the players or
spectators to influence their decisions under the Laws.
3.—A code of signals for umpires is laid down in the Notes to the
relevant Laws; but an umpire must call as well as signal, if necessary,
to inform the players and scorers.
4.—FAIR. AND UNFAIR PLAY.
(i)	The umpires are entitled to intervene without appeal in the
case of unfair play, but should not otherwise interfere with
the progress of the game, except as required to do so by the
Laws.
(ii)	In the event of a player failing to comply with the instructions
of an umpire or criticising his decisions, the umpires should
in the first place request the captains to take action, and
if this proves ineffective, report the incident forthwith to
the executives of the teams taking part in the match,
(iii)	It is illegal for a player to lift the seam of the ball in order
to obtain a better hold. In such a case the umpire will
if necessary change the ball for one which has had similar
wear, and will warn the captain that the practice is unfair.
The use of resin, wax, etc., by bowlers is also unfair, but a
bowler may dry the ball when wet on a towel or with
sawdust.
(iv)	An umpire is justified in intervening under this Law should
any player of the fielding side incommode the striker by
any noise or motion while he is receiving a ball.
(v)	The umpires arc justified in preventing players from causing
damage to the pitch which may assist the bowlers.
(vi)	The persistent and systematic bowling of fast short-pitched
balls at the batsman standing clear of his wicket is “ unfair ”
and if, in the opinion of the umpire at the bowler’s end,
unfair bowling of this type takes place he must adopt the
following procedure :—
(o) When he decides that such bowling is becoming
persistent he forthwith “ cautions ” the bowler.
(6) If this “ caution ” is ineffective, he informs the captain
of the fielding side and the other umpire of what has
occurred.
(c) Should the above prove ineffective, the umpire at the
bowler’s end must :—
20
(i)	At the first repetition call “ Dead Ball,” when the
over is regarded as completed.
(ii)	Request the captain of the fielding side to take the
bowler oil forthwith.
(iii)	Report the occurrence to the captain of the batting
side as soon as an interval of play takes place.
A bowler who has been “ taken off” as above may not
bowl again during the same innings.
(vii)	Any attempt by the batsmen to steal a run during the bowler’s
run up is unfair. Unless the bowler throws the ball at
cither wicket (see Laws 26 Note 3 and 27 Note 2), the
umpire should call “ Dead Ball ” as soon as the batsmen
cross in any such attempt to run, after which they return to
their original wickets.
(viii)	No player shall leave the field for the purpose of having a
rub down or shower while play is actually in progress.
5.—GROUND, WEATHER AND LIGHT.
(i)	Unless agreement to the contrary is made before the start
of a match, the captains (during actual play the batsmen at
the wickets may deputise for their captain) may elect to
decide in regard to the fitness of the ground, weather or light
for play ; otherwise in the event of disagreement, the Umpires
arc required to decide.
(ii)	Play should only be suspended when the conditions are so
bad that it is unreasonable or dangerous for it to continue.
The ground is unfit for play when water stands on the surface
or when it is so wet or slippery as to deprive the batsmen or
bowlers of a reasonable foothold, or the fieldsman of the
power of free movement. Play should not be suspended
merely because the grass is wet and the ball slippery.
(iii)	After any suspension of play, the captains, or, if the decision
has been left to them, the Umpires, unaccompanied by any
of the players, will without further instructions carry out an
inspection immediately the conditions improve, and will
continue to inspect at intervals. Immediately the responsible
parties decide that play is possible, they must call upon the
players to resume the game.
APPEALS.
47.—The Umpires shall not order a Batsman out unless appealed
to by the other side which shall be done prior to the delivery of the next
ball, and before “Time” is called under Law 18. The Umpire at
the Bowler’s wicket shall answer appeals before the other Umpire
In all cases except those arising out of Laws 38 or 42 and out of Law
41 for run out at the Striker’s wicket. In any case in which an Umpire
is unable to give a decision, he shall appeal to the other Umpire whose
decision shall be final.
21
NOTES.
1.—An appeal, “How’s that?’’ covers all ways of being out
(within the jurisdiction of the umpire appealed to), unless a specific
way of getting out is stated by the person asking. When either
umpire has given a batsman “ Not out ” the other umpire may
answer any appeal within his jurisdiction, provided it is made in
time.
2.—The umpire signals “ Out ’’ by raising the index finger above
the head. If the batsman is not out, the umpire calls “ Not out.’’
3.—An umpire may alter his decision provided that such alteration
is made promptly.
4.—Nothing in this Law prevents an umpire before giving a
decision from consulting the other umpire on a point of fact which
the latter may have been in a better position to observe. An umpire
should not appeal to the other umpire in eases on which he could
give a decision, merely because he is unwilling to give that decision.
If after consultation he is still in any doubt, the principle laid down
in Law 46 applies and the decision will be in favour of the batsman.
5.—The umpires should intervene if satisfied that a batsman, not
having been given out, has left his wicket under a misapprehension.
6.—Under Law 25 the ball is “ Dead ” on “ Over ” being called :
this does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the first ball of the
following “ Over,’’ provided the bails have not been removed by
both umpires after “ Time ’’ has been called.


22
NOTES FOR SCORERS AND UMPIRES.
I.—(a) Law 4 explains the status of the scorers in relation to the
umpires.
(Z>) During the progress of the game, if two scorers have been
appointed, they should frequently check the total to ensure that the
score sheets agree.
(c) The following method of entering “ No Balls ” and “ Wides ”
(Laws 27 and 29) in the score sheet is recommended :—
(i)	If no run is scored from the bat off a “ No Ball,” the latter
should be entered as an “ Extra,” and a dot placed in the
bowling analysis with a circle round it to show that the ball
docs not count in the over.
(ii)	If runs arc scored from the bat off a “ No Ball,” they should
be credited to the striker, and entered in the bowling analysis
with a circle round the figure. Such runs count against the
bowler in his analysis even though the ball docs not count
in the over.
(iii)	All runs scored from " Wide Balls ” arc entered as “ Extras,”
and inserted in the bowler’s analysis with a cross to indicate
that the ball docs not count in the over.
2.—The following code of signalling between the umpires and
the scorers has been approved :—
Boundaries—by waving the hand from side to side.
A boundary six—by raising both arms above the head.
Byes—by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg Byes—by touching a raised knee with the hand.
Widcs—by extending both arms horizontally.
No Balls—by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “ Out,”—by raising the index finger above the
head.
“ One Short ”—by bending the arm upwards and by touching
the top of the nearest shoulder with the tips of the fingers
of one hand.
3.—If the above instructions are properly carried out, cases of
disagreement as regards the scores and the results of matches should
not occur.
It is, however, important that the captains should satisfy them-
selves of the correctness of the scores on the conclusion of play, as
errors cannot subsequently be corrected.
It should be noted that, in general, by accepting the result notified
by the scorers, the captain of the losing side has thereby acquiesced
in the “ playing out or giving up ” of the match as stated in Law 22.
23
REGULATIONS FOR DRYING THE PITCH AND
GROUND IN FIRST-CLASS MATCHES IN THE
UNITED KINGDOM.
N.B.—These regulations are primarily designed for First-class
Cricket, and their application in whole or in part in other grades of
Cricket in the United Kingdom is at the discretion of the ground,
etc., authorities.
1.—Except as provided below, the existing regulations in regard
to the rolling of the pitch and the fitness of the ground for play shall
apply. (See Laws 10, 12 and 46.)
2.—(i) To enable play to proceed with the least possible delay
after rain, the groundman shall adopt every practical means to
protect or rid the surface of the ground, other than the pitch, of
water or dampness at any time except while play is in progress.
(ii) Prior to tossing for choice of innings, the artificial drying of
the pitch shall be at the discretion of the groundman, but thereafter
and throughout the match, the drying process shall be carried ou
only on the instructions and under the supervision of the umpires
who shall be empowered to have the pitch dried, without refcrcncl
to the Captains, at any time they are of opinion that it is unfit for
play.
(iii)	In wet weather, the umpires shall see that the foot-holes made
by the bowlers and batsmen arc cleaned, dried and filled up with
sawdust at any time during the match, although the game is not
actually in progress.
The groundman, without instructions from the umpires, may also
clean out in this way foot-holes, provided they are not on any part
of the pitch, more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping creases.
The drying of foot-holes on the pitch itself shall be supervised by
the umpires, but, in the interval between close of play on any day
and its further resumption, the groundman may protect against
further rain, marks made by the bowlers, even though they be more
than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the Popping creases, provided they arc
not between wicket and wicket, with loose sawdust, which, however,
shall be removed prior to the resumption of play.
(iv)	The umpires shall ascertain from the groundman before the
commencement of a match, what equipment is available for drying
the pitch artificially.
Before drying the pitch the umpires shall have regard to the
condition of the outfield and the prospects of its fitness for play.
The drier shall be removed when tney are satisfied that the pitch is
fit for play, or as they may direct.
&

24
Any roller may be used, if the umpires think desirable but only
(except as laid down in paragraph (2) (v)) for the purpose of drying
the pitch and making it lit for play, and not otherwise. This would
allow umpires to roll the pitch after drying it, say with a light roller,
for a minute or two, should they consider it desirable.
(v)	When the artificial drying of the pitch, under the supervision
of the umpires, coincides with any interval during the match, after
the toss for choice of innings, the umpires, and not the captain of
the batting side, shall select the roller to be used.
(vi)	The fact that the umpires may have dried the pitch artificially
does not take the decision as regards the fitness of the pitch and
ground for play out of the hands of the captains, even though the
umpires may have selected the roller to be used for the drying process.
Law 46, Note 5 (i) is applicable in such cases.
25
INDEX TO THE LAWS	OF	CRICKET.		
Appealing : Laws.			Notes.	Pages.
General rules for .. .. 47	47	1,	2, 3, 4, 5	20, 21
Method of ..	47	1		21
Time limit for .. 47 Bails :	47	6		20, 21
Dispensed with in high wind Replacing of, while ball in	8	2;	31 3	5, 14
Play 	 Size of ., .. .. 8 To be removed when um- pires call “ Time ” 18 Ball : See also “ DEAD BALL ” and “ LOST BALL” Captains and umpires to	31	4		14 5 8
inspect ..	5	1		4
Changing .. .. 5	5	3;	46 4(iii)	4, 19
Provision of new ball .. 5 Size and weight of .. 5 Bat : Practice with prohibited .. 17 Size of .. .. .. 6 Batsmen :	5	2		J 1 4
Breaking wicket in running	38	2		16
Changing ends Dismissal of, see “OUT” “ Out of his ground ” .. 32 Position of non-strikcr .. 24 Retirement of and resump-	19	1		9 14 11
tion of innings by .. 33	33	1		14
Time allowed to come in .. 17 Boundaries : General rules and allow-	17	1.	2	8
ances for .. .. 20	20	1, 7	2, 3, 4, 5, 6	9, 10
How signalled Bowled : See “ OUT ” Bowler : See also “ UNFAIR PLAY ” Changing ends .. 24	20			10 11
Changing mode of delivery Incapacitated or suspended during an “ over ” .. 24 Trial balls, and practice on	26	2		12 11
pitch prohibited.. .. 17 “ Byes ” and “ Leg Byes ” :	17	4		8
Calling and signalling	30	2		13
General rules .. .. 30 How scored .. 30 Captains : See “ PLAYERS, etc.”	30	1		13 13
26
Caught : See " OUT ” Laws. Conditions of play :	Notes.	Pages.
Special regulations .. 45 Conduct of the game : See “ UMPIRES Creases : Bowling .. .. .. 9 Popping .. 9 Return 	 9 “ Dead Ball ” : Ball coming into play .. 25 General rules for .. .. 25 When ball is not “ dead ” 25 27, 29 Declarations : General rules .. 15 When start is delayed .. 16 Dress :	10 1; 45 1 9 1 25 1, 2 25 3	5, 6, 18 5 5 5 11 11 11 12, 13 7 7
Definition of Fieldsmen : May only stop ball with person ... .. .. 44 Penalty for unfair methods 44 Provisions for fielding on or	25 4; 31 5 44 1 44 2	12, 14 18 18
over the boundary Substitutes for .. .. 2 Follow-on : General rules .. .. 14 When start is delayed .. 16 Ground, Weather and Light :	20 3; 35 5 2 1	9, 15 3 7 7
Fitness for play .. .. 46 Regulations for Drying : Handled the Ball : See “ OUT ” Hit the Ball twice : See “ OUT ” Hit Wicket : Sec “ OUT ” Implements of game :	46 5	18,20 23
Umpires to inspect .. 46	5 1	4, 18
Innings : See also “ DECLARATIONS ” and “ FOLLOW-ON.” General rules for .... 13 13 2 7 Tossing for choice of 13 13 1 7 Intervals :		
General rules .. .. 17 For meals .. .. .. 17 Rule for fresh batsman .. 17	10 3; 17 3 17 3 17 1, 2	6, 8 8 8
L.B.W. : See “ OUT ”
“ Leg Bye ” : See “ BYES, etc.”
Light : See “ GROUND, etc.”
Lost Ball :
Rule for............. 2! 10
27
	Laws.	Notes.	Pages.
Matches :			
Definition of	1	1 2	3
Drawn	22		10
Given up (or refusal to play)	17	17 1,2	8
One-day	22	22 2	10
Result of ..	22	22 1, 2, 3	10
“ Tie ” 			22 4	10
Mowing : See “ PITCH ”			
“ No Ball ” :			
Ball is not “ dead ’’	27		12
Batsmen may be “ out ” off	27		12
Bowler, accidentally breaks			
near wicket		26 4	12
Bowler, changing mode of			
delivery ..		26 2	12
Bowler, throwing at wicket		26 3; 27 2	12
Calling and signalling	26	26 5, 6	12
General rules	26	26 1, 4, 6	12
How scored	27	27 1	12
Not to reckon in “ over ”	23		11
Striker cannot be stumped			
off 		41, 42		17
Striker may score off	27		12
Obstructing the Field : See “ OUT ”
One-Day Matches : See “ MATCHES ”
“ Out ” :					
Bowled	34	34	1, 2		14
Caught	35	19	1		9, 15
		35	1, 2, 3, 4. 5, 6, 7		15
Handled the ball ..	36	36	1, 2		15
Hit the ball twice	37	35	6; 37 1, 2, 3, 4		15, 16
Hit wicket	38	38	1, 2		16
How signalled		47	2		21
L.B.W		39	34	2; 39 1	14,	16, 17
Obstructing the field	40	37	2; 40 1, 2		16, 17
Run out	41	41	1		17
Stumped “ Out of his Ground ” :	42	42	1		17
Definition .. “ Over ” :	32				14
General rules	23, 24				10, 11
“ No balls ” and “ wides ” not to reckon	23				11
Number of balls to	23	23	1		10, 11
Rules re finishing	18, 24				8. 11
Overthrows : See “ SCORING ”
Penalties : See “ SCORING
28
Person : Laws.
Definition of
Hand regarded as part of
bat ...................
Pitch :
Changing of
Covering of .. . • 11
Definition of
Regulations for drying
Rolling, mowing and water-
ing of .. .. 10
Selection and preparation of
Use and maintenance of . 7,12
Play : Sec also “ INTERVALS ”
Calling “ Play ” .. 17
Continuing, after first inn-
ings in a onc-day match 22
Players :
Captains
Composition of sides .. 1
Injured player resuming .
Not to criticise the umpires
Result : See “ MATCHES ”
Retirement : See “ BATSMEN ”
Rolling : See “ PITCH ”
Run Out : See “ OUT ”
Runs : See “ SCORING ”
Scorers :
Consultation with umpires
Duties of................. 4
Notes for ..
To accept umpires’ instruc-
tions .................. 4
Notes. Pages.
25 4; 31 5 12, 14
36 I 15
5
111 7
4
23, 24
10 2, 3, 4, 5 5, 6
4, 5
5, 7
17 I 8
22 2 10
I I; 22 1: 45 2 3, 10, 18
1 2 3
2 I 3
46 4 (ii) 19
Scoring : See also “BOUNDARIES ”
After hitting ball twice .. 37
Entries of special nature ..
Disallowed runs .. .. 19
Overthrows 20
Penalties—See “ BYES and-
LEG BYES,” “FIELDS-
MEN,” “LOST BALL,”
“ NO BALL,” “ WIDE”
Runs ................. 19
Short runs .. .. 19
Stealing run before delivery
of ball, prohibited
Scores to be checked
Short Runs : Sec “ SCORING ”
Sides : See “ PLAYERS ”
4 1 4
4 1 4
22
4
15
36 2; 37 4; 40 2 15.16,17
37 4 8, 9, 16
9
19 2, 3, 4
46 4 (vii)
22 1
8, 9
8, 9
20
10
Signals : Laws.
General .. .. .. 4
Stumped : See “ OUT”
Stumps :
General .. .. 8
Shape of top of
Struck or pulled up .. 31
Substitutes :
General rules . . 2
Teams : Sec “ PLAYERS ”
“Tie” : Sec “ MATCH ”
‘ Time ” :
Finishing “ over ” before.. 18
When to be called 18
Wicket falling within two
minutes of the commence-
ment of an interval in play 18
Time Keeping : See “ UMPIRES ”
Tossing :
Choice not to be altered ..
For choice of innings 13
Players to be nominated
before .. .. 1
Trial Balls : Sec “ BOWLER ”
Umpires :
Appointment or change of 3
Consultation between, per-
mitted 47
Criticism of, by players ..
Decisions of, may be altered
Duties re :
Appeals .. 47
Calling and signalling,
See “ SIGNALS ”
Condition of ground,
weather and light . . 46
Conduct of game .. 46
Disputes .. .. 46
Boundaries .. 20
Fair and unfair play .. 46
.Implements of the game 46
Pitching of wickets .. 45
Notes. Pages.
19 4; 20 7; 26 5 4
28 3; 30 2; 46 3; 47 2 9
10
12
13
19
21
22
5
8 1 5
31 3 13
2 1,2 3
	8
	8
13 1	
13 1	7 3
3
47	4	20, 21
46	4 (ii)	19
47	3	21
47	1	20, 21
46	5	18, 20
		18
		18
20	2, 3, 4	9
46	4	18, 19
5	1	4, 18
		18
30
Scorers and scoring Special conditions of play Time keeping Use and maintenance of pitch		Laws. 4 45 45 7 10 12	Notes.		Pages. 4, 22 18 18 5 5, 6 7
		4 45 45 10	1 1 2 2, 4, 5	
Intervention by Jursidiction of	47	46 47	4 (i); 47 5 1	19, 21 20, 21
Not to be influenced by players, etc. Position of To be impartial	3	46 46 46	2 1 2	19 18, 19 3, 19
To change ends To notify decisions clearly To report before start of matches	 Unfair play : Action by umpires	46 46	46 3 46	3 I 4	18 19 4 18, 19
Attempts to run before the ball is delivered Ball tampered with By fieldsmen .. .. 44 Use of resin, etc., by bowler Unfair bowling Unfair practices .. Watering : See “ PITCH ” Weather : See “ GROUND, etc.” Wicket Keeper : Position, etc., behind the wicket .. 43		46 46 44 46 46 46 43	4 (vii) 4 (iii) 1, 2 4 (iii) 4 (vi) 4 (iv)(v) (viii) 1	20 19 18 19 19, 20 19, 20 17, 18
Wickets : Definition of wicket is “ down ”	31	31	1, 2, 3	13,14
Lay out and size of Umpires need not remake while ball is in play Umpires to supervise pitch- ing of 	 “ Wide ” : Ball not “ dead ” .. Ball not reaching striker .. Batsmen may be “ out ” from 	 Calling and signalling General rules How scored Not to reckon in “ over ”	8 45 29 29 28 28 29 23	31 28 28 28	4 1 2, 3 I	5 14 18 13 13 13 13 13 13 11