Il-w io.
^0
1947 Code—3rd Edition, 1962.
THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
OFFICIAL
Price: ONE SHILLING, Net

RS
THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
(1947 Code—3rd Edition)
OFFICIAL
London
Marylebone Cricket Club
1962
World Copyright Reserved
PREFACE
During the last two hundred years the conduct of the game of
Cricket has been governed by a series of Codes of Laws. These
Codes were established as indicated below, and were at all times
subject to additions and alterations ordained by the governing
authorities of the time. Since its formation in 1787 the Maryle-
bone Cricket Club has been recognised as the sole authority for
drawing up the Code and for all subsequent alterations.
There is little doubt that Cricket was subject to recognised
rules as early as 1700, though the earliest known Code is that
drawn up in 1744 by certain Noblemen and Gentlemen who
used the Artillery Ground in London. These Laws were revised
in 1755 by “Several Cricket-Clubs, particularly that of the
Star and Garter in Pall-Mall.”
The next arrangement was produced by “a Committee of
Noblemen and Gentlemen of Kent, Hampshire, Surrey, Sussex
Middlesex and London,” at the Star and Garter on Februar
25th, 1774, and this in turn was revised by a similar body ii
February, 1786.
On May 30th, 1788, the first M.C.C. Code was adopted, and
remained in force until May 19th, 1835, when a new Code of
Laws was approved by the Committee. The Laws appear to
have been first numbered in 1823.
The 1835 Code, amended in detail from time to time, stood
until April 21st, 1884, when, after consultation with cricket
clubs both at home and overseas, important alterations were
incorporated in a new version adopted at a Special General
Meeting of the M.C.C.
By 1939, these Laws supplemented as they had been by the
inclusion of many definitions and interpretations in the form
of notes, were in need of revision, and immediately on the con-
clusion of the World War the opinions of controlling Bodies
and Clubs throughout the world were sought, with the result
that the present code was adopted at a Special General Meeting
of the M.C.C. on May 7th, 1947.
This revision in the main aimed at the clarification and better
anangement of the previous Laws and their interpretations, but
did not exclude certain definite alterations designed firstly to
provide greater latitude in the conduct of the game as required
by the widely differing conditions in which it is played, and
secondly to eliminate certain umpiring difficulties.
2
This, the third edition of the 1947 Code, contains a few small
alterations to the Laws and certain alterations and amendments
to the Notes published since 1952.
Under the Rules of the Marylebone Cricket Club the Laws of
Cricket can only be changed by the vote of two-thirds of the
members present and voting at a Special General Meeting, of
which due notice is required to be given.
From time to time the Committee of the M.C.C. are required
to give interpretations on points of difficulty arising from the
Laws, and these are given in the form of notes to the Laws
themselves.
The primary purpose of the book as expressed by the late
Sir Francis Lacey (Secretary of the M.C.C. from 1898 to 1926)
remains unchanged:—
“The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties, which
are known to exist, although they are not always apparent.
Hundreds of cases are sent to the M.C.C. for decision every
year. It is from this source that the chief difficulties have become
manifest. Saturday and League Matches are especially produc-
tive of disputes, and it is hoped that those who read these notes
may find an answer to any doubt which may arise as to the
proper interpretation of the Laws of Cricket.”
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
London, N.W.8 R. AIRD,
1 st July, 1962 Secretary, M. C. C.
CONTENTS
Page
Preface .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1
The Laws of Cricket .. .. .. .. .. 3
A.	The Players, Umpires and Scorers .. .. .. 3
B.	The Implements of the Game, and the Ground .. 4
C.	The Care and Maintenance of the Pitch
D.	The Conduct of the Game .. .. .. .. 7
E.	Duties of the Umpires .. .. .. .. 21
Notes for Scorers and Umpires .. .. 25
Regulations for drying wickets in the United Kingdom.. 26
Index .. .. .. .. .. .. •. 29
3
THE LAWS OF CRICKET
(A)—THE PLAYERS, UMPIRES AND SCORERS
SIDES
1.—A match is played between two sides of eleven players each,
unless otherwise agreed. Each side shall play under a Captain who
before the toss for innings shall nominate his players who may not
thereafter be changed without the consent of tlie opposing Captain.
NOTES
1.—If a captain is not available at any time, a deputy must act
for him to deal promptly with points arising from this and other
Laws.
2.—No match in which more than eleven players a side tak
part can be regarded as First-class, and in any case no sic
should field with more than eleven players.
SUBSTITUTES
2.— Substitute shall be allowed to field or run between tlie
wickets for any player who may during the match be incapacitated
from illness or injury, but not for any other reason without the
consent of the opposing Captain; no Substitute shall be allowed
to bat or to bowl. Consent as to the person to act as substitute in
the field shall be obtained from the opposing Captain, who may
indicate positions in which tlie Substitute shall not field.
NOTES
1.—A player may bat, bowl or field even though a substitute
has acted for him previously.
2.—An injured batsman may be “Out” should his runner
infringe Laws 36, 40 or 41. As Striker he remains himself subject
to the Laws; should he be out of his ground for any purpose he
may be “Out” under Laws 41 and 42 at the wicket-keeper’s
end, irrespective of the position of the other batsman or the
substitute when the wicket is put down. When not the Striker
the injured batsman is out of the game and stands where he
does not interfere with the play.
THE APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES
3.—Before the toss for innings two Umpires shall be appointed,
one for each end to control the game as required by the Laws with
absolute impartiality. No Umpire shall be changed during a
match without the consent of both Captains.
4
NOTE
1.—The umpires should report themselves to the executive
of the ground 30 minutes before the start of each day’s play.
THE SCORERS
4.—All runs scored shall be recorded by Scorers appointed for
the purpose; the Scorers shall accept and acknowledge all instruc-
tions and signals given to them by the Umpires.
NOTE
1.—The umpires should wait until a signal has been answered
by a scorer before allowing the game to proceed. Mutual con-
sultation between the scorers and the umpires to clear up
doubtful points is at all times permissible.
(B)—THE IMPLEMENTS OF THE GAME, AND
THE GROUND
THE BALL
5.—The Ball shall weigh not less than 5-1 ounces, nor more
than 5| ounces. It shall measure not less than 8-$- inches, nor more
than 9 inches in circumference. Subject to agreement to the con-
trary either Captain may demand a new ball at the start of each
innings. In the event of a ball being lost or becoming unfit for play,
the Umpires shall allow another ball to be taken into use. They shall
inform the Batsmen whenever a ball is to be changed.
NOTES
1.—All cricket balls used in First-class matches should be
approved before the start of a match by the umpires and
captains.
2.—Except in the United Kingdom, or if local regulations
provide otherwise, after 200 runs have been made off a ball in
First-class matches, the captain of the fielding side may demand
a new one. In First-class matches in the United Kingdom the
fielding side may demand a new ball after 65 (6 ball) overs have
been bowled with the old one. In other grades of cricket these
regulations will not apply unless agreed before the toss for
innings.
3.—Any ball substituted for one lost or becoming unfit for
play should have had similar wear or use as that of the one
discarded.
THE BAT
6.—The Bat shall not exceed 4| inches in the widest part; it shall
not be more than 38 inches in length.
w* ............... .—
______
5
THE PITCH
7.—The Pitch is deemed to be the area of ground between the
bowling creases, 5 feet in width on cither side of the line joining the
centre of the wickets. Before the toss for innings, the executive of
the ground shall be responsible for the selection and preparation of
the Pitch; thereafter the Umpires shall control its use and main-
tenance. The Pitch shall not be changed during a match unless it
becomes unfit for play, and then only with the consent of both
Captains.
THE WICKETS
8.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to cac'
other at a distance of 22 yards from stump to stump. Each Wickc
shall be 9 inches in width and consist of three stumps with tw<
bails upon the top. The stumps shall be of equal and of sufficient
size to prevent the ball from passing through, with their top 28
inches above the ground. The bails shall be each 4| inches in
length, and, when in position on the top of the stumps, shall not
project more than 1 inch above them.
NOTES
1.—Except for the bail grooves the tops of the stumps shall be
dome-shaped.
2.—In a high wind the captains may agree, with the approval
of the umpires, to dispense with the use of bails {see Law 31,
Note 3).
THE BOWLING AND POPPING CREASES
9.—The Bowling crease shall be in line with the stumps; 8 feet
8 inches in length; the stumps in the centre; with a Return crease
at each end at right angles behind the wicket. The Popping crease
shall be marked 4 feet in front of and parallel with the Bowling
crease. Both the Return and Popping creases shall be deemed
unlimited in length.
NOTE
1.—The distance of the Popping Crease from the wicket is
measured from a line running through the centre of the stumps
to the inside edge of the crease.
(C)—THE CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE
PITCH
ROLLING, MOWING AND WATERING
10.—Unless permitted by special regulations, the Pitch shall
not be rolled during a match except before the start of each innings
6
and of each day’s play, when, if the Captain of the batting side so
elect, it may be swept and rolled for not more than 7 minutes. The
Pitch shall not be mown during a match unless special regulations
so provide. Under no circumstances shall the Pitch be watered
during a match.
NOTES
1.—“Special Regulations,” within the framework of the
Laws, referred to in this and subsequent Laws are those author-
ised by M.C.C. in respect of County Cricket, or by Overseas
Governing Bodies in respect of cricket in the countries con-
cerned. Such Regulations do not apply to matches played by
touring teams unless included in these Notes and Interpreta-
tions of the Official Laws, or unless agreed to by both parties
before the visiting team arrives.
2.—The umpires are responsible that any rolling permitted by
this Law and carried out at the request of the captain of the
batting side, is in accordance with the regulations laid down and
that it is completed so as to allow play to start at the stipulated
time.
The normal rolling before the start of each day’s play shall
take place not earlier than half an hour before the start of play,
but the captain of the batting side may delay such rolling until
10 minutes before the start of play should he so desire.
3.—The time allowed for rolling shall be taken out of the
normal playing time if a captain declare an innings closed either,
(a) before play starts on any day so late that the other captain
is prevented from exercising his option in regard to rolling
under this Law, or (/>) during the luncheon interval later than
15 minutes after the start of such interval.
4.—Except in the United Kingdom, if at any time a rain
affected pitch is damaged by play thereon, it shall be swept and
rolled for a period of not more than ten consecutive minutes
at any time between the close of play on the day on which it was
damaged and the next resumption of play, provided that:—
(i)	The umpires shall instruct the groundsman to sweep and
roll the pitch only after they have agreed that damage
caused to it as a result of play after rain has fallen
warrants such rolling additional to that provided for in
Law 10.
(ii)	Such rolling shall in all cases be done under the personal
supervision of both umpires and shall take place at such
7
time and with such roller as the groundsman shall con-
sider best calculated to repair the damage to the pitch.
(iii)	Not more than one such additional rolling shall be per-
mitted as a result of rain on any particular day.
(iv)	The rolling provided for in Law 10, to take place before
the start of play, shall not be permitted on any day on
which the rolling herein provided for takes place within
two hours of the time appointed for commencement of
play on that day.
5.—The pitch shall be mown under the supervision of the
umpires before play begins on alternate days after the start of s
match, but should the pitch not be so mown on any day or
account of play not taking place, it shall be mown on the firsi
day on which the match is resumed and thereafter on alternate
days. (For the purpose of this rule a rest day counts as a day).
COVERING THE PITCH
11.—The Pitch shall not be completely covered during a match
unless special regulations so provide; covers used to protect the
bowlers’ run up sliall not extend to a greater distance than 3^ feet
in front of the Popping creases.
NOTE
1.—It is usual under this Law to protect the bowlers* run up,
before and during a match, both at night and, when necessary,
during the day. The covers should be removed early each morn-
ing, if fine.
MAINTENANCE OF THE PITCH
12.—The Batsman may beat the Pitch with his bat, and Players
may secure their footholds by tlie use of sawdust, provided Law 46
be not thereby contravened. In wet weather the Umpires shall see
that the holes made by the Bowlers and Batsmen are cleaned out
and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
(D)—THE CONDUCT OF THE GAME
INNINGS
13.—Each side has two innings, taken alternately, except in the
case provided for in Law 14. The choice of innings shall be decided
by tossing on the field of play.
NOTES
1.—The captains should toss for innings not later than 15
minutes before the time agreed upon for play to start. The winner
8
of the toss may not alter his decision to bat or field once it has
been notified to the opposing captain.
2.—This Law also governs a One-day match in which play
continues after the completion of the first innings of both sides.
(See also Law 22.)
FOLLOWING INNINGS
14.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in a match
of three days or more, by 100 runs in a two-day match, or by 75
runs in a one-day match, shall have the option of requiring the
other side to follow their innings.
DECLARATIONS
15.—The Captain of the batting side may declare an innings
closed at any time during a match irrespective of its duration.
16.—When the start of play is delayed by weather Law 14
shall apply in accordance with the number of days’ play remaining
from the actual start of the match.
START AND CLOSE OF PLAY AND INTERVALS
17.—The Umpires shall allow such intervals as have been
agreed upon for meals, 10 minutes between each innings and not
more than 2 minutes for each fresh batsman to come in. At the
start of each innings and of each day’s play and at the end of any
interval the Umpire at the Bowler’s end shall call “Play”, when
the side refusing to play shall lose the match. After “Play” has
been called no trial ball shall be allowed to any player, and when
one of the Batsmen is out the use of the bat shall not be allowed to
any player until the next Batsman shall come in.
NOTES
1.—The umpires shall not award a match under this Law
unless (i) “Play” has been called in such a manner that both
sides can clearly understand that play is to start, (ii) an appeal
has been made, and (iii) they are satisfied that a side will not, or
cannot, continue play.
2.—It is an essential duty of the captains to ensure that the
“ingoing” batsman passes the “out-coming” one before the
latter leaves the field of play. This is all the more important in
view of the responsibility resting on the umpires for deciding
whether or not the delay of the individual amounts to a refusal
of the batting side to continue play.
3.—The interval for luncheon should not exceed 45 minutes
unless otherwise agreed, (but see Law 10, Note 3). In the event
9
of the last wicket falling within 2 minutes of the time arranged
for luncheon or tea, the game shall be resumed at the usual
hour, no allowance being made for the 10 minutes between the
innings.
4.—Bowling practice on the pitch is forbidden at any time
during the game.
18.—The Umpires shall call “Time,” and at the same time
remove the bails from both wickets, on the cessation of play before
any arranged interval, at the end of each day’s play, and at tlv
conclusion of the match. An “ Over” shall always be started
“Time” has not been reached, and shall be completed unless
batsman is “Out” or “Retires” within 2 minutes of the completion
of any period of play, but the “Over” in progress at the close J.
play on the final day of a match shall be completed at the request
of either Captain even if a wicket fall after “Time” has been
reached.
NOTES
1.—If, during the completion of the last over of any period of
play, the players have occasion to leave the field, the Umpires
shall call “time.” In the case of the last over of the match, there
shall be no resumption of play and the match shall be at an end.
2.—The last over before an interval or the close of play shall
be started, provided the umpire standing at square leg, after
walking at his normal pace, has arrived at his position behind
the stumps at the bowler’s end before time has been reached.
SCORING
19.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:—
1st.—So often as the Batsmen after a hit, or at any time while the
ball is in play, shall have crossed and made good their ground
from end to end; but if either Batsman run a short run, the
Umpire shall call and signal “One short” and that run shall
not be scored. The Striker being caught, no run shall be scored;
a Batsman being run out, that run which was being attempted
shall not be scored.
2nd.—For penalties under Laws 21, 27, 29, 44 and boundary
allowances under Law 20.
NOTES
1.—If while the ball is in play, the batsmen have crossed in
running, neither returns to the wicket he has left except in the
case of a boundary hit, or a boundary from extras, or under
10
Laws 30 Note 1 and 46 Note 4 (vii). This rule applies even
should a short run have been called, or should no run be
reckoned as in the case of a catch.
2.—A run is “short” if either, or both, batsmen fail to make
good their ground in turning for a further run.
Although such a “short” run shortens the succeeding one,
the latter, if completed, counts. Similarly a batsman taking
stance in front of his popping crease may run from that point
without penalty.
3.—(i) One run only is deducted if both batsmen are short
in one and the same run.
(ii) Only if three or more runs are attempted can more than
one run be “short” and then, subject to (i) above, all runs so
called shall be disallowed.
(iii) If either or both batsmen deliberately run short, the
umpire is justified in calling “Dead Ball” and disallowing any
runs attempted or scored as soon as he sees that the fielding
side have no chance of dismissing either batsman under the
Laws.
4.—An umpire signals “short” runs when the ball becomes
“dead” by bending his arm upwards to touch the shoulder
with the tips of his fingers. If there has been more than one
“short” run the umpires must instruct the scorers as to the
number of runs disallowed. (See Note 1 to Law 4).
BOUNDARIES
20.—Before the toss for innings the Umpires shall agree with
both sides on the Boundaries for play, and on the allowances to be
made for them. An Umpire shall call or signal “Boundary” when-
ever, in his opinion, a ball in play hits, crosses or is carried over
the Boundary. The runs completed at the instant the ball reaches
the Boundary shall count only should they exceed the allowance,
but if the “Boundary” result from an overthrow or from the
wilful act of a fieldsman, any runs already made and the allow-
ance shall be added to the score.
NOTES
1.—If flags or posts are used to mark a boundary, the real or
imaginary line joining such points shall be regarded as the
boundary, which should be marked by a white line if possible.
11
2.—In deciding on the allowances to be made for boundaries
the umpires will be guided by the prevailing custom of the
ground.
3.—It is a “Boundary” if the ball touches any boundary line
or if a fieldsman with ball in hand grounds any part of his
person on or over that line. A fieldsman, however, standing
within the playing area may lean against or touch a boundar
fence in fielding a ball (see also Law 35, Note 5).
4.—An obstacle, or person, within the playing area is nc
regarded as a boundary unless so arranged by the umpire.'
The umpire is not a boundary, but sight screens within thu
playing area shall be so regarded.
5.—The customary allowance for a boundary is 4 runs, but it
is usual to allow 6 runs for all hits pitching over and clear of the
boundary line or fence (even though the ball has been pre-
viously touched by a fieldsman). It is not usual to allow 6 runs
when a ball hits a sight screen full pitch, if the latter is on or
inside the boundary.
6.—In the case of a boundary resulting from either an over-
throw or the wilful act of a fieldsman, the run in progress counts
provided that the batsmen have crossed at the instant of the
throw or act.
7.—The umpire signals “Boundary” by waving an arm from
side to side, or a boundary “6” by raising both arms above the
head.
LOST BALL
21.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered any Fields-
man may call “Lost Ball”, when 6 runs shall be added to tlie score;
but if more than 6 have been run before “Lost Ball” be called, as
many runs as have been run shall be scored.
THE RESULT
22.—A match is won by the side which shall have scored a total
of runs in excess of that scored by the opposing side in its two com-
pleted innings; one-day matches, unless thus played out, shall be
decided by the first innings. A match may also be determined by
being given up as lost by one of the sides, or in the case governed
by Law 17. A match not determined in any of these ways, shall
count as a “Draw.”
NOTES
1.—It is the responsibility of the captains to satisfy themselves
on the correctness of the scores on the conclusion of play.
12
2.—Neither side can be compelled to continue after a match
is finished; a onc-day match shall not be regarded as finished
on the result of the first innings if the umpires consider there is a
prospect of carrying the game to a further issue in the time
remaining.
3.—The result of a finished match is stated as a win by runs,
except in the case of a win by the side batting last, when it is by
the number of wickets still then to fall. In a one-day match which
is not played out on the second innings, this rule applies to the
position at the time when a result on the first innings was
reached.
4.—A “Draw” is regarded as a “Tie” when the scores are
equal at the conclusion of play but only if the match has been
played out. If the scores of the completed first innings of a one-
day match are equal, it is a “Tie,” but only if the match has not
been played out to a further conclusion.
THE OVER
23.—The ball shall be bowled from each wicket alternately in
Overs of either 8 or 6 balls according to the agreed conditions of
play. When the agreed number have been bowled and it has
become clear to the Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket that both sides
have ceased to regard the ball as in play, the Umpire shall call
“Over” in a distinct manner before leaving the wicket. Neither
a “No Ball” nor a “Wide Ball” shall be reckoned as one of the
“Over.”
NOTE
1.—In the United Kingdom the “over” shall be 6 balls,
unless an agreement to the contrary has been made.
24.—A Bowler shall finish an “Over” in progress unless he be
incapacitated or be suspended for unfair play. He shall be allowed
to change ends as often as desired, provided only that he shall not
bowl two “Overs” consecutively in one innings. A Bowler may
require the Batsman at the wicket from which he is bowling to
stand on whichever side of it he may direct.
DEAD BALL
25.—The ball shall be held to be “Dead”—on being in the
opinion of the Umpire finally settled in the hands of the Wicket-
keeper or of the Bowler; or on reaching or pitching over the
boundary; or, whether played or not, on lodging in the dress of
either a Batsman or Umpire; or on the call of “Over” or “Time”
13
by the Umpire; or on a Batsman being out from any cause; or on
any penalty being awarded under Laws 21 or 44. The Umpire
shall call “Dead Ball” should he decide to intervene under Law
46 in a case of unfair play or in the event of a serious injury to a
player; or should he require to suspend play prior to the Striker
receiving a delivery. The ball shall cease to be “Dead” on the
Bowler starting his run or bowling action.
NOTES
1.—Whether the ball is “finally settled” is a question of fac
for the umpire alone to decide.
2.—An umpire is justified in suspending play prior to the
striker receiving a delivery in any of the following circum-
stances :—
(i)	If satisfied that, for an adequate reason, the striker is not
ready to receive the ball, and makes no attempt to play it.
(ii)	If the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery,
or if the ball does not leave his hand for any reason.
(iii)	If one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before he
receives the delivery.
In such cases the ball is regarded as “Dead” from the time it
last came into play.
3.—A ball does not become “Dead” when it strikes an umpire
(unless it lodges in his dress), when the wicket is broken or struck
down (unless a batsman is out thereby), or when an unsuccessful
appeal is made.
4.—For the purpose of this and other Laws, the term “dress”
includes the equipment and clothing of players and umpires as
normally worn.
NO BALL
26.—For a delivery to be fair the ball must be bowled, not
thrown or jerked; if either Umpire be not entirely satisfied of the
absolute fairness of a delivery in this respect, he shall call and
signal “No Ball” instantly upon delivery. The Umpire at the
Bowler’s wicket shall call and signal “No Ball” if he is not
satisfied that at the instant of delivery the Bowler has at least some
part of one foot behind the Bowling crease and within the Return
crease, and not touching or grounded over either crease.
14
NOTES
1.—Subject to the provisions of the Law being complied with
a bowler is not debarred from deliveringThe ball with both feet
behind the bowling crease.
2.—The striker is entitled to know whether the bowler intends
to bowl over or round the wicket, overarm or underarm, right
or left handed. An umpire may regard any failure to notify a
change in the mode of delivery as “unfair,** if so, he should call
“No ball.’’
3.—it is a “No Ball” if the bowler before delivering a ball
throws it at the striker’s wicket even in an attempt to run him
out (see Law 46, Note 4 (vii)).
4.—If a bowler break the near wicket with any part of his
person during the delivery, such act in itself does not constitute
“No Bali.”
5.—The umpire signals “No Ball’ by extending one arm
horizontally.
6.—An umpire should revoke the call “No Ball” if the ball
does not leave the bowler’s hand for any reason.
27.—The ball does not become “Dead” on the call of “No
Ball.” The Striker may hit a “No Ball” and whatever runs result
shall be added to his score, but runs made otherwise from a “No
Ball” shall be scored “No Balls,” and if no runs be made one run
shall be so scored. The Striker shall be out from a “No Ball”
if he break Law 37, and either Batsman may be run out, or given
out if he break Laws 36 or 40.
NOTES
1.—The penalty for a “No Ball” is only scored if no runs
result otherwise.
2.—Law 46 Note 4 (vii) covers attempts to run before the ball
is delivered, but should the non-striker unfairly leave his ground
too soon, the fielding side may run out the batsman at the
bowler’s end by any recognised method. If the bowler throws
at the near wicket, the umpire does not call “No Ball,” though
any runs resulting are so scored. The throw does not count in
the “Over.”
WIDE BALL
28.—If the Bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so wide of
the wicket that in the opinion of the Umpire it passes out of reach
15
of the Striker, and would not have been within his reach when
taking guard in the normal position, the Umpire shall call and
signal “Wide Ball” as soon as it shall have passed the Striker.
NOTES
1.—If a ball which the umpire considers to have been delivered
comes to rest in front of the striker “Wide” should not be called,
and no runs should be added to the score unless they result
from the striker hitting the ball which he has a right to do
without interference by the fielding side. Should the fielding side
interfere, the umpire is justified in replacing the ball where it
came to rest and ordering the fieldsmen to resume the place'
they occupied in the field before the ball was delivered.
2.—The umpire signals “Wide” by extending both arms hor
zontally.
3.—An umpire should revoke the call if the striker hits a ball
which has been called “Wide.”
29.—The ball does not become “Dead” on the call of “Wide
Ball.” All runs that are run from a “Wide Bali” shall be scored
“Wide Balls,” or if no runs be made one run shall be so scored.
The Striker may be out from a “Wide Ball” if he breaks Laws
38 or 42, and either Batsman may be run out, or given out if he
break Laws 36 or 40.
BYE AND LEG BYE
30.—If the ball, not having been called “Wide” or “No Ball,”
pass the Striker without touching his bat or person, and any runs
be obtained, the Umpire shall call or signal “Bye”; but if the ball
touch any part of the Striker’s dress or person except his hand
holding the bat, and any run be obtained, the Umpire shall call or
signal “Leg Bye”; such runs to be scored “Byes” and “Leg
Byes” respectively.
NOTES
1.—Leg byes which result from the unintentional deflection
of the ball by any part of the striker’s person other than the
hand holding the bat, whether he has played at the ball or not,
are fair. If the umpire is not entirely satisfied that the act was
unintentional he shall call “Dead Ball” as soon as he sees that
the fielding side have no chance of dismissing either batsman as
an immediate result of such deflection.
2.—The umpire signals “Bye” by raising an open hand above
the head, and “Leg Bye” by touching a raised knee with the
hand.
THE WICKET IS DOWN
31.—The wicket shall be held to be “Down” if either the ball or
the Striker’s bat or person completely removes either bail from the
top of the stumps, or, if both bails be off, strikes a stump out of the
ground. Any player may use his hand or arm to put the wicket
down or, even should the bails be previously off, may pull up a
stump, provided always that the ball is held in the hand or hands
so used.
NOTES
1.—A wicket is not “down” merely on account of the dis-
turbance of a bail, but it is “down” if a bail in failing from the
wicket lodges between two of the stumps.
2.—If one bail is off, it is sufficient for the purpose of this
Law to dislodge the remaining one in any of the ways stated, or
to strike any of the three stumps out of the ground.
3.—If, owing to the strength of the wind, the captains have
agreed to dispense with the use of bails (see Law 8, Note 2), the
decision as to when the wicket is “down” is one for the umpires
to decide on the facts before them. In such circumstances the
wicket would be held to be “down” even though a stump has
not been struck out of the ground.
4.—If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play, it is not the
umpire’s duty to remake the wicket until the ball has become
“dead.” A fieldsman, however, may remake the wicket in such
circumstances.
5.—For the purpose of this and other Laws the term “person”
includes a player’s dress as defined in Law 25, Note 4.
OUT OF HIS GROUND
32.—A Batsman shall be held to be “Out of his ground” unless
some part of his bat in hand or of his person be grounded behind
the line of the Popping Crease.
BATSMAN RETIRING
33.—A Batsman may retire at any time, but may not resume his
innings without the consent of the opposing Captain, and then only
on the fall of a wicket.
17
NOTE
1.—When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury, or
some other unavoidable cause, his innings is recorded as
“Retired, Not out,’’ but otherwise as a completed innings to be
recorded as “Retired, Out.”
BOWLED
34.—The Striker is out “Bowled”—If the wicket be bowled
down, even if the ball first touch his bat or person.
NOTE
1.—The striker, after playing the ball, is out “Bowled” if he
then kicks or hits it on to his wicket before the completion of hi
stroke.
2.—The striker is out “Bowled” under this Law when the ba
is deflected on to his wicket off his person, even though 1
decision against him might be justified under Law 39 L.B.W.
CAUGHT
35.—The Striker is out “Caught”—If the ball, from a stroke
of the bat or of the hand holding the bat, but not the wrist, be held
by a Fieldsman before it touch the ground, although it be hugged
to the body of the catcher, or be accidentally lodged in his dress.
The Fieldsman must have both his feet entirely within the playing
area at the instant the catch is completed.
NOTES
1.—Provided the ball does not touch the ground, the hand
holding it may do so in effecting a catch.
2.—The umpire is justified in disregarding the fact that the
ball has touched the ground, or has been carried over the
boundary provided that a catch has in fact been completed
prior to such occurrence.
3.—The fact that a ball has touched the striker’s person
before or after touching his bat does not invalidate a catch.
4.—The striker may be “Caught” even if the fieldsman has
not touched the ball with his hands, including the case of a ball
lodging in the wicket-keeper’s pads.
5.—A fieldsman standing within the playing area may lean
against the boundary to catch a ball, and this may be done even
if the ball has passed over the boundary.
18
6.—If the striker lawfully plays the ball a second time he may
be out under this Law, but only if the ball has not touched the
ground since being first struck.
7.—The striker may be caught off any obstruction within the
playing area provided it has not previously been decided on as a
boundary.
HANDLED THE BALL
36.—Either Batsman is out “Handled the Ball”—If he touch it
while in play with his hands, unless it be done at the request of the
opposite side.
NOTES
1.—A hand holding the bat is regarded as part of it for the
purposes of Laws 36, 37, and 39.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman is
given out under this Law is “Handled the Ball,’’ and the bowler
does not get credit for the wicket.
HIT THE BALL TWICE
37.—The Striker is out “Hit the ball twice”—If the ball be
struck or be stopped by any part of his person, and he wilfully
strike it again, except for the sole purpose of guarding his wicket,
which he may do with his bat or any part of his person, other than
his hands. No runs except those which result from an overthrow
shall be scored from a ball lawfully struck twice.
NOTES
1.—It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball has been so
struck a second time legitimately or not. The umpire may
regard the fact that a run is attempted as evidence of the bats-
men’s intention to take advantage of the second stroke, but it is
not conclusive.
2.—A batsman may not attempt to hit the ball twice, if in so
doing he baulks the wicket-keeper or any fieldsman attempting
to make a catch.
3.—This Law is infringed if the striker, after playing the ball
and without any request from the opposite side, uses his bat to
return the ball to a fieldsman.
4.—The correct entry in the score book when the striker is
given out under this Law is “Hit the ball twice,” and the bowler
does not get credit for the wicket.
19
HIT WICKET
38.—The Striker is out “Hit wicket”—If in playing at the ball
he hit down his wicket with his bat or any part of his person.
NOTES
1.—The Striker is “Out” under this Law if:—
(i)	In making a second stroke to keep the ball out of his
wicket he hits it down.
(ii)	While playing at the ball, but not otherwise, his wicket is
broken by his cap or hat falling, or by part of his bat.
2.—A batsman is not out for breaking the wicket with his
bat or person while in the act of running.
L.B.W.
39.—The Striker is out “Leg before wicket”—If with any part
of his person except his hand, which is in a straight line between
wicket and wicket, even though the point of impact be above the
level of the bails, he intercept a ball which has not first touched his
bat or hand, and which, in the opinion of the Umpire, shall have,
or would have, pitched on a straight line from the Bowler’s wicket
to the Striker’s wicket, or shall have pitched on the off-side of the
Striker’s wicket, provided always that the ball would have hit the
wicket.
NOTE
1.—The word “hand” used in this Law should be interpreted
as the hand holding the bat.
2.—A batsman is only “Out” under this Law if all the four
following questions are answered in the affirmative.
(i)	Would the ball have hit the wicket?
(ii)	Did the ball pitch on a straight line between wicket and
wicket (and this cause includes a ball intercepted full
pitch by the striker), or did it pitch on the offside of the
striker’s wicket?
(iii)	Was it part of the striker’s person other than the hand
which first intercepted the ball?
(iv)	Was that part of the striker’s person in a straight line
between wicket and wicket at the moment of impact,
irrespective of the height of the point of impact?
20
OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
40.—Either Batsman is out “Obstructing the field”—If he
wilfully obstruct the opposite side; should such wilful obstruction
by either Batsman prevent a ball from being caught it is the
Striker who is out.
NOTES
1.—The umpire must decide whether the obstruction was
“wilful” or not. The involuntary interception by a batsman
while running of a throw in is not in itself an offence.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman is
given out under this Law is “Obstructing the field,” and the
bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
RUN OUT
41.—Either Batsman is out “Run out”—If in running or at any
time, while the ball is in play, he be out of his ground, and his
wicket be put down by the opposite side. If the batsmen have
crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket which is put down
is out; if they have not crossed, he that has left the wicket which
is put down is out. But unless he attempt to run, the Striker shall
not be given “Run out” in the circumstances stated in Law 42,
even should “No Ball” have been called.
NOTE
1.—If the ball is played on to the opposite wicket, neither
batsman is liable to be “Run out” unless the ball has been
touched by a fieldsman before the wicket is put down.
STUMPED
42.—A striker is out “Stumped”—If in receiving a ball, not
being a “No Ball,” delivered by the Bowler, he be out of his
ground otherwise than in attempting a run, and the wicket be put
down by the Wicket-keeper without the intervention of another
fieldsman. Only when the ball has touched the bat or person of the
Striker may the Wicket-keeper take it in front of the wicket for
this purpose.
NOTE
1.—The striker may be “Stumped” if the wicket is broken by
a ball rebounding from the wicket-keeper’s person.
THE WICKET-KEEPER
43.—The Wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket
until a ball delivered by the Bowler touches the bat or person of the
21
Striker, or passes the wicket, or until the Striker attempts a run.
Should the Wicket-keeper contravene this Law, the Striker shall
not be out except under Laws 36, 37, 40, and 41 and then only
subject to Law 46.
NOTE
1.—This Law is provided to secure to the striker his right to
play the ball and to guard his wicket without interference fror
the wicket-keeper. The striker may not be penalised if in tf
legitimate defence of his wicket he interferes with the wicke
keeper, except as provided for in Law 37, Note 2.
THE FIELDSMAN
44.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his
person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise five runs shall be added
to the run or runs already made; if no run has been made five
shall be scored. The penalty shall be added to the score of the
Striker if the ball has been struck, but otherwise to the score of
Byes, Leg Byes, No Balls or Wides as the case may be.
NOTES
1.—A fieldsman must not use his cap, etc., for the purpose of
fielding a ball.
2.—The five runs are a penalty and the batsmen do not change
ends.
(E)—DUTIES OF THE UMPIRES
45.—Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall acquaint
themselves with any special regulations, and shall agree with both
Captains on any other conditions affecting the conduct of the
match; shall satisfy themselves that the wickets are properly
pitched; and shall agree, between themselves on the watch or
clock to be followed during play.
NOTES
1.—Apart from “Special Regulations” {see Law 10, Note 1),
other conditions of play within the framework of the Laws are
frequently necessary, e.g. Hours of play, Intervals, etc.
2.—The captains are entitled to know which clock or watch
will be followed during play.
46,—Before and during a match the Umpires shall ensure that
the conduct of the game and the implements used are strictly in
22
accordance with the Laws; they are the sole judges of fair and
unfair play, and the final judges of the fitness of the ground,
the weather and the light for play in the event of the decision
being left to them; all disputes shall be determined by them,
and if they disagree the actual state of things shall continue. The
Umpires shall change ends after each side has had one innings.
NOTES
1.—An umpire should stand where he can best see any act
upon which his decision may be required. Subject to this over-
riding consideration the umpire at the bowler’s end should stand
where he does not interfere with either the bowler’s run up or
the striker’s view. If the other umpire wishes to stand on the
off instead of the leg side of the pitch, he should obtain the
permission of the captain of the fielding side and inform the
batsman.
2.—The umpires must not allow the attitude of the players or
spectators to influence their decisions under the Laws.
3.—A code of signals for umpires is laid down in the Notes
to the relevant Laws; but an umpire must call as well as signal,
if necessary, to inform the players and scorers.
4.—FAIR AND UNFAIR PLAY.
(i)	The umpires arc entitled to intervene without appeal in
the case of unfair play, but should not otherwise interfere
with the progress of the game, except as required to do so
by the Laws.
(ii)	In the event of a player failing to comply with the instruc-
tions of an umpire or criticising his decisions, the umpires
should in the first place request the captains to take action,
and if this proves ineffective, report the incident forth-
with to the executives of the teams taking part in the
match.
(iii)	It is illegal for a player to lift the seam of the ball in order
to obtain a better hold. In such a case the umpire will
if necessary change the ball for one which has had
similar wear, and will warn the captain that the practice
is unfair. The use of resin, wax, etc., by bowlers is also
unfair, but a bowler may dry the ball when wet on a
towel or with sawdust.
23
(iv)	An umpire is justified in intervening under this Law
should any player of the fielding side incommode the
striker by any noise or motion while he is receiving a ball.
(v)	It is the duty of umpires to intervene and prevent players
from causing damage to the pitch which may assist th
bowlers.
(vi)	The persistent bowling of fast short-pitched balls at th
batsman is unfair if, in the opinion of the umpire at the
bowler’s end, it constitutes a systematic attempt at
intimidation. In such event he must adopt the following
procedure:—
(o) When he decides that such bowling is becoming
persistent he forthwith “cautions” the bowler.
(/?) If this “caution” is ineffective, he informs the captain
of the fielding side and the other umpire of what has
occurred.
(c) Should the above prove ineffective, the umpire at the
bowler’s end must:—
(i)	At the first repetition call “Dead Ball,” when the
over is regarded as completed.
(ii)	Direct the captain of the fielding side to take the
bowler oft' forthwith. The captain shall take
the bowler off as directed.
(iii)	Report the occurrence to the captain of the
batting side as soon as an interval of play takes
place.
A bowler who has been “taken off” as above may not
bowl again during the same innings.
(vii)	Any attempt by the batsmen to steal a run during the
bowler’s run up is unfair. Unless the bowler throws the
ball at either wicket (see Laws 26, Note 3, and 27, Note 2),
the umpire should call “Dead Ball” as soon as the batsmen
cross in any such attempt to run, after which they return
to their original wickets.
(viii)	No player shall leave the field for the purpose of having a
rub down or shower while play is actually in progress.
5.—GROUND, WEATHER AND LIGHT.
(i)	Unless agreement to the contrary is made before the start
of a match, the captains (during actual play the batsmen
	
24
at the wickets may deputise for their captain) may elect to
decide in regard to the fitness of the ground, weather or
light for play; otherwise or in the event of disagreement,
the Umpires are required to decide.
(ii)	Play should only be suspended when the conditions are
so bad that is is unreasonable or dangerous for it to con-
tinue. The ground is unfit for play when water stands on
the surface or when it is so wet or slippery as to deprive
the batsmen or bowlers of a reasonable foothold, or the
fieldsman of the power of free movement. Play should not
be suspended merely because the grass is wet and the
ball slippery.
(iii)	After any suspension of play, the captains, or, if the
decision has been left to them, the Umpires, unaccom-
panied by any of the players, will without further
instructions carry out an inspection immediately the
conditions improve, and will continue to inspect at
intervals. Immediately the responsible parties decide
that play is possible, they must call upon the players to
resume the game.
APPEALS
47.—The Umpires shall not order a Batsman out unless
appealed to by the other side which shall be done prior to the
delivery of the next ball, and before “Time” is called under
Law 18. The Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall answer appeals
before the other Umpire in all cases except those arising out of
Laws 38 or 42 and out of Law 41 for run out at the Striker’s
wicket. In any case in which an Umpire is unable to give a decision,
he shall appeal to the other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
NOTES
1.—An appeal, “How’s that?” covers all ways of being out
(within the jurisdiction of the umpire appealed to), unless a
specific way of getting out is stated by the person asking. When
either umpire has given a batsman “Not out” the other umpire
may answer any appeal within his jurisdiction, provided it is
made in time.
2.—The umpire signals “Out” by raising the index finger
above the head. If the batsman is not out, the umpire calls
“Not out.”
25
3.—An umpire may alter his decision provided that such
alteration is made promptly.
4.—Nothing in this Law prevents an umpire before giving a
decision from consulting the other umpire on a point of fact
which the latter may have been in a better position to observe.
An umpire should not appeal to the other umpire in cases on
which he could give a decision, merely because he is unwilling
to give that decision. If after consultation he is still in any doubt,
the principle laid down in Law 46 applies and the decision will
be in favour of the batsman.
5.—The umpires should intervene if satisfied that a batsman,
not having been given out, has left his wicket under a mis-
apprehension.
6.—Under Law 25 the ball is “Dead” on “Over” being
called; this does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the
first ball of the following “Over,” provided the bails have not
been removed by both umpires after “Time” has been called.
NOTES FOR SCORERS AND UMPIRES
1.—(a) Law 4 explains the status of the scorers in relation to
the umpires.
(/>) During the progress of the game, if two scorers have been
appointed, they should frequently check the total to ensure that
the score sheets agree.
(c) The following method of entering “No Balls” and
“Wides” (Laws 27 and 29) in the score sheet is recommended:—
(i)	If no run is scored from the bat off a “No Ball,” the
latter should be entered as an “Extra,” and a dot placed
in the bowling analysis with a circle round it to show that
the ball does not count in the over.
(ii)	If runs are scored from the bat off a “No Ball,” they
should be credited to the striker, and entered in the
bowling analysis with a circle round the figure. Such runs
count against the bowler in his analysis even though the
ball does not count in the over.
(iii)	All runs scored from “Wide Balls” are entered as
“Extras,” and inserted in the bowler’s analysis with a
cross to indicate that the ball does not count in the over.
26
2.—The following code of signalling between the umpires and
the scorers has been approved:—
Boundaries—by waving the hand from side to side.
A boundary six—by raising both arms above the head.
Byes—by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg Byes—by touching a raised knee with the hand.
Widcs—by extending both arms horizontally.
No Balls—by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “Out,”—by raising the index finger above
the head.
“One Short”—by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest shoulder with the tips
of the fingers of one hand.
3.—If the above instructions arc properly carried out, cases of
disagreement as regards the scores and the results of matches
should not occur.
It is, however, important that the captains should satisfy
themselves of the correctness of the scores on the conclusion of
play, as errors cannot subsequently be corrected.
It should be noted that, in general, by accepting the result
notified by the scorers, the captain of the losing side has thereby
acquiesced in the “playing out or giving up” of the match as
stated in Law 22.
REGULATIONS FOR DRYING THE PITCH AND
GROUND IN FIRST-CLASS MATCHES IN THE
UNITED KINGDOM
N.B.—These regulations are primarily designed for First-class
Cricket, and their application in whole or in part in other grades
of Cricket in the United Kingdom is at the discretion of the
ground, etc., authorities.
1.—Except as provided below, the existing regulations in
regard to the rolling of the pitch and the fitness of the ground
for play shall apply. {See Laws 10, 12 and 46.)
2.—(i) To enable play to proceed with the least possible delay
after rain, the groundsman shall adopt every practical means to
27
protect or rid the surface of the ground, other than the pitch, of
water or dampness at any time except while play is in progress.
(ii) Prior to tossing for choice of innings the artificial drying
of the pitch and outfield shall be at the discretion of the
Groundsman. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying
of the outfield may be undertaken at any time by the Grounds-
man, but the drying of the pitch shall be carried out only on the
instructions and under the supervision of the Umpires. Th
Umpires shall be empowered to have the pitch dried without
reference to the Captains at any time they are of the opinio
that it is unfit for play.
(iii)	In wet weather, the umpires shall see that the foot-holes
made by the bowlers and batsmen are cleaned, dried and filled
up with sawdust at any time during the match, although the
game is not actually in progress.
The groundsman, without instructions from the umpires,
may also clean out in this way foot-holes, provided they arc not
on any part of the pitch, more than 3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the
Popping creases.
The drying of the footholds on the pitch itself may be under-
taken, as directed by the Umpires, at any time. The Umpires
may also direct the Groundsman to protect against further
rain marks made by the bowlers, even though they be more than
3 ft. 6 ins. in front of the popping creases, provided they are
not between wicket and wicket, with loose sawdust, which,
however, shall be removed prior to the resumption of play.
(iv)	The umpires shall ascertain from the groundsman before
the commencement of a match, what equipment is available
for drying the pitch artificially.
Any roller may be used, if the umpires think desirable but
only (except as laid down in paragraph (2) (v)) for the purpose
of drying the pitch and making it fit for play, and not otherwise.
This would allow umpires to roll the pitch after drying it, say
with a light roller, for a minute or two, should they consider it
desirable.
(v)	When the artificial drying of the pitch, under the super-
vision of the umpires, coincides with any interval during the
match, after the toss for choice of innings, the umpires, and not
the captain of the batting side, shall select the roller to be used.
28
(vi)	The fact that the umpires may have dried the pitch
artificially does not take the decision as regards the fitness of the
pitch and ground for play out of the hands of the captains, even
though the umpires may have selected the roller to be used for
the drying process. Law 46, Note 5 (i) is applicable in such cases.
29
INDEX TO THE LAWS OF CRICKET
Appealing:	Laws	Notes	Pages
General rules for ..	41	47 1,2,3,4,5	24, 25
Method of		47 1	24
Time limit for Bails: Dispensed with in high	47	47 6	24, 25
wind Replacing of, while ball in		8 2;313	5,16
Play 			314	16
Size of To be removed when um-	8		5
pires call “Time” Ball: See also “DEAD BALL” and “LOST BALL” Captains and umpires to	18		S
inspect ..		5,1	4
Changing ..	5	5 3; 464(iii)	4, 22
Provision of new ball	5	52	4
Size and weight of Bat:	5		4
Practice with prohibited ..	17		8
Size of 	 Batsmen:	6		4
Breaking wicket in running		38 2	19
Changing ends Dismissal of, see “OUT”		19 1	9
“Out of his ground”	32		16
Position of non-striker .. Retirement of and resump-	24		12
tion of innings by	33	33 1	17
Time allowed to come in.. Boundaries: General rules and allow-	17	171,2	8
ances for	20	201,2,3,4,5,6	10,11
How signalled Bowled: See “OUT” Bowler: See also “UNFAIR PLAY”		20 7	11
Changing ends	24		12
Changing mode of delivery Incapacitated or suspended during an “over”		26 2	14
	24		12
30
	Laws	Notes	Pages
Trial balls, and practice on pitch prohibited	17	174	9
“Byes” and “Leg Byes”: Calling and signalling ..		30 2	16
General rules	30	301	15
How scored	30		15
Captains: See “PLAYERS”, etc. Caught: See “OUT” Conditions of play: Special regulations .. 45		101; 45 1	6,21
Conduct of the game: See “UMPIRES			
Creases: Bowling ..	9	91	5
Popping		9		5
Return	9		5
“Dead Ball”: Ball coming into play	25		12
General rules for	25	25 1,2	13
When ball is not “dead” ..	25	25 3	13
Declarations: General rules	27, 29 15		14,15 8
When start is delayed	16		8
Dress: Definition of		25 4; 31 5	13,16
Fieldsmen: May only stop ball with person ..	44	441	21
Penalty for unfair methods	44	44 2	21
Provisions for fielding on or over the boundary ..		20 3;355	11,17
Substitutes for	2	21	3
Follow-on: General rules	14		8
When start is delayed	16		8
Ground, Weather and Light: Fitness for play ..	46	46 5	21,23
Regulations for Drying: Handled the Ball: See “OUT” Hit die Ball twice: See “OUT”	•		
Hit Wicket: See “OUT”
31
Laws Notes Pages
Implements of game:
Umpires to inspect .. 46 5 1 4,21
Innings: See also “DECLARATIONS” and “FOLLOW-ON.”
General rules for	13	132	8
Tossing for choice of Intervals:	13	131	7
General rules	17	103; 173	6,8
For meals ..	17	173	8
Rule for fresh batsman .. L.B.W.: See “OUT” “Leg Bye”: See “BYES,” etc. Light: See “GROUND,” etc. Lost Ball:	17	171,2	8
Rule for .. Matches:	21		i
Definition of	1	1,2	3
Drawn Given up (or refusal to	22		11
Play)		17	171,2	8
One-day ..	22	22 2	11, 12
Result of		22	221,2,3	11, 12
“Tie” 	 Mowing: See “PITCH” “No Ball”:		224	12
Ball is not “dead”	27		14
Batsmen may be “out” off Bowler, accidentally breaks	27		14
near wicket Bowler, changing mode of		264	14
delivery ..		26 2	14
Bowler, throwing at wicket		26 3; 27 2	14
Calling and signalling	26	26 5,6	13,14
General rules	26	26 1,4,6	13,14
How scored	27	271	14
Not to reckon in “over” .. Striker cannot be stumped	23		12
off 		41,42		20
Striker may score off .. 27 Obstructing the Field: See “OUT”			14
One-Day Matches: See “MATCHES”
32
“Out”:	Laws	Notes	Pages
Bowled		34	341,2	17
Caught 		35	191	9,17
		35 1,2,3,4,5,6,7 17, 18	
Handled the ball ..	36	361,2	18
Hit the ball twice ..	37	356:37 1,2,3,4 11,18	
Hit wicket	38	38 1,2	19
How signalled		47 2	24
L.B.W		39	34 2; 39 1	17,19
Obstructing the field	40	37 2;40 1,2	18,20
Run out ..	41	41 1	20
Stumped ..	42	421	20
“Out of his Ground”			
Definition ..	32		16
“Over”:			
General rules	23, 24		12
“No balls” and “wides”			
not to reckon ..	23		12
Number of balls to	23	23 1	12
Rules re finishing..	18, 24		9, 12
Overthrows: See “SCORING’			
Penalties: See “SCORING”			
Person:			
Definition of		25 4; 31 5	13,16
Hand regarded as part of			
bat		361	18
Pitch:			
Changing of	7		5
Covering of	11	11 1	7
Definition of	7		5
Regulations for drying ..			26, 27, 28
Rolling, mowingand water-			
ing of ..	10	10 2,3,4,5	5,6
Selection and preparation			
of 		7		5
Use and maintenance of..	7, 12		5,7
Play: See also “INTERVALS’			
Calling “Play”	17	171	8
Continuing, after first inn-			
ings in a one-day match	22	22 2	11, 12
Players:			
Captains ..	1	1 1; 22 1; 45 2	3,11,21
33
	Laws	Notes	Pages
Composition of sides	1	12	3
Injured player resuming ..		21	3
Not to criticise the umpires Result: See “MATCHES” Retirement: See “BATSMEN’ Rolling: See “PITCH” Run Out: See “OUT” Runs : See “SCORING” Scorers:	9	46 4 (ii)	22
Consultation with umpires		41	4
Duties of .. Notes for .. To accept umpires’ instruc-	4	41	4 22
tions .. .. .. 4 Scoring: See also “BOUNDARIES”			4
After hitting ball twice ..	37		18
Entries of special nature..		36 2; 37 4; 40 2	18,20
Disallowed runs ..	19	37 4	9,10, 18
Overthrows Penalties—See “BYES and LEG BYES,” “FIELDS- MEN,” “LOST BALL,” “NO BALL,” “WIDE”	20		10
Runs	19		9
Short runs.. Stealing run before delivery	19	19 2,3,4	9,10
of ball, prohibited		46 4 (vii)	23
Scores to be checked Short Runs: See “SCORING’ Sides: See “PLAYERS” Signals:	9	221	11
General	4	19 4; 20 7; 26 5 282;302;463;	4 ,472 10 11 14 15
16
22
24
Stumped :"5ee “OUT’
34			
Stumps:	Laws	Notes	Pages
General		8		5
Shape of top of ..		8 1	5
Struck or pulled up Substitutes:	31	31 3	16
General rules Teams: See “PLAYERS” “Tie”: See “MATCH” “Time”:	2	21,2	3
Finishing “over” before ..	18		9
When to be called Wicket falling within two minutes of the com- mencement of an interval	18		9
in play ..	18		9
Time Keeping: See “UMPIRES”
Tossing:			
Choice not to be altered..		13 1	7,8
For choice of innings Players to be nominated	13	13 1	7,8
before		1		3
Trial Balls: See “BOWLER” Umpires:			
Appointment or change of Consultation between, per-	3		3
mitted ..	47	47 4	24, 25
Criticism of, by players .. Decisions of, may be		464 (ii)	22
altered .. Duties re:		47 3	25
Appeals Calling and signalling, See “SIGNALS”	47	47 1	24
Condition of ground,			
weather and light ..	46	46 5	21,23
Conduct of game	46		21
Disputes	46		21
Boundaries	20	20 2, 3,4	10, 11
Fair and unfair play ..	46	46 4	21,22
Implements of the game	46	51	4,21
Pitching of wickets	45		21
35
	Laws	Notes	Pages
Scorers and scoring ..	4	41	4,25
Special conditions of play ..	45	45 1	21
Time keeping ..	45	45 2	21
Use and maintenance of pitch ..	7		5
	10	10 2,4,5	5,6,7
Intervention by ..	12	46 4 (i); 47 5	7 22,25
Jurisdiction of	47	47 1	24
Not to be influenced by players, etc.		46 2	22
Position of		46 1	22
To be impartial ..	3	46 2	3,22
To change ends ..	46		21
To notify decisions clearly		46 3	22
To report before start of matches		3 1	4
Unfair play: Action by umpires	46	46 4	21,22
Attempts to run before the ball is delivered		46 4 (vii)	23
Ball tampered with		46 4 (iii)	22
By fieldsmen	44	441,2	21
Use of resin, etc., by bowler		46 4 (iii)	22
Unfair bowling		46 4 (vi)	23
Unfair practices ..		46 4 (iv) (v) (viii)	23
Watering: See “PITCH” Weather: See “GROUND,” < Wicket Keeper: Position etc., behind the wicket ..	etc. 43	43 1	20,21
Wickets: Definition of wicket is “down”	31	31 1,2,3	16
Lay out and size of	8		5
Umpires need not remake while ball is in play		314	16
Umpires to supervise pitch- ing of ..	45		21
36
	Laws	Notes	Pages
Wide”: Ball not “dead” ..	29		15
Ball not reaching striker.. Batsmen may be “out”		28 1	14
from	29		15
Calling and signalling	28	28 2,3	14, 15
General rules	28	281	14, 15
How scored	29		15
Not to reckon in “over”..	23		12