THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
(1947 Code — 4th Edition)
OFFICIAL
London
Marylebone Cricket Club
1968
World Copyright Reserved
PREFACE
During the last two hundred years the conduct of the
game of Cricket has been governed by a series of Codes
of Laws. These Codes were established as indicated below,
and were at all times subject to additions and alterations
ordained by the governing authorities of the time. Since its
formation in 1787 the Marylcbone Cricket Club has been
recognised as the sole authority for drawing up the Code
and for all subsequent alterations.
There is little doubt that Cricket was subject to re-
cognised rules as early as 1700, though the earliest known
Code is that drawn up in 1744 by certain Noblemen and
Gentlemen who used the Artillery Ground in London.
These Laws were revised in 1755 by “ Several Cricket-
Clubs, particularly that of the Star and Garter in Pall-Mall.”
The next arrangement was produced by “ a Committee
of Noblemen and Gentlemen of Kent, Hampshire, Surrey,
Sussex, Middlesex and London,” at the Star and Garter on
February 25th, 1774, and this in turn was revised by a
similar body in February, 1786.
On May 30th, 1788, the first M.C.C. Code was adopted,
and remained in force until May 19th, 1835, when a new
Code of Laws was approved by the Committee. The Laws
appear to have been first numbered in 1823.
The 1835 Code, amended in detail from time to time,
stood until April 21st, 1884, when, after consultation with
cricket clubs both at home and overseas, important altera-
tions were incorporated in a new version adopted at a
Special General Meeting of the M.C.C.
By 1939, these Laws supplemented as they had been by
the inclusion of many definitions and interpretations in
the form of notes, were in need of revision, and immediately
on the conclusion of the World War the opinions of con-
trolling Bodies and Clubs throughout the world were sought,
with the result that the present code was adopted at a
Special General Meeting of the M.C.C. on May 7th, 1947.
This revision in the main aimed at the clarification and
better arrangement of the previous Laws and their inter-
pretations, but did not exclude certain definite alterations
designed firstly to provide greater latitude in the conduct of
the game as required by the widely differing conditions in
which it is played, and secondly to eliminate certain umpir-
ing difficulties.
4
This, the fourth edition of the 1947 Code, contains a few
small alterations to the Laws and certain alterations and
amendments to the Notes published since 1962.
Under the Rules of the Marylebonc Cricket Club the
Laws of Cricket can only be changed by the vote of
two-thirds of the members present and voting at a Special
General Meeting, of which due notice is required to be
given.
From time to time the Committee of the M.C.C. are
required to give interpretations on points of difficulty
arising from the Laws, and these are given in the form of
notes to the Laws themselves.
The primary purpose of the book as expressed by the
late Sir Francis Lacey (Secretary of the M.C.C. from 1898
to 1926) remains unchanged:—
“ The aim of this publication is to remove difficulties,
which are known to exist, although they are not always
apparent. Hundreds of cases arc sent to the M.C.C. for
decision every year. It is from this source that the chief
difficulties have become manifest. Saturday and League
Matches are especially productive of disputes, and it is
hoped that those who read these notes may find an answer
to any doubt which may arise as to the proper interpretation
of the Laws of Cricket.”
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
London, N.W.8. S. C. GRIFFITH,
1st June, 1968. Secretary, M.C.C.
CONTENTS
Page
Preface .................................... ... 3
The Laws of Cricket......................... ... 5
A.	The Players, Umpires and Scorers ... ... 5
B.	The Implements of the Games, and the Ground 6
C.	The Care and Maintenance of the Pitch ... 8
D.	The Conduct of the Game ... ... ... 10
E.	Duties of the Umpires ......................... 24
Notes for Scorers and Umpires .............. ... 28
Regulations for drying pitches ............. ... 29
Index ...................................... ... 31
5
THE LAWS OF CRICKET
The term * Special Regulations ’ referred to in certain Laws
are those authorised by M.C.C., Overseas Governing Bodies
or other Cricket Authorities in respect of matches played
under their jurisdiction.
(A)—THE PLAYERS, UMPIRES AND SCORER
1.—A match is played between two sides of eleven players
each, unless otherwise agreed. Each side shall play under a
Captain who before the toss for innings shall nominate
his players who may not thereafter be changed without the
consent of the opposing Captain.
NOTES
1.—If a captain is not available at any time, a deputy
must act for him to deal promptly with points arising from
this and other Laws.
2.—No match in which more than eleven players a side
take part can be regarded as First-class, and in any case no
side should field with more than eleven players.
SUBSTITUTES
2.—Substitutes shall be allowed to field or run between
the wickets for any player who may during the match be
incapacitated from illness or injury, but not for any other
reason without the consent of the opposing Captain; no
Substitute shall be allowed to bat or to bowL Consent as to
the person to act as substitute in the field shall be obtained
from the opposing Captain, who may indicate positions in
which the Substitute shall not field,
NOTES
1.—A player may bat, bowl or field even though a sub-
stitute has acted for him previously.
2.—An injured batsman may be “ Out ” should his runner
infringe Laws 36, 40 or 41. As Striker he remains himself
subject to the Laws; should he be out of his ground for any
purpose he may be “ Out ” under Laws 41 and 42 at the
wicket-keeper’s end, irrespective of the position of the other
batsman or the substitute when the wicket is put down.
6
When not the Striker the injured batsman is out of the game
and stands where he does not interfere with the play.
THE APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRES
3.—Before the toss for innings two Umpires shall be
appointed one for each end to control the game as required
by the Laws with absolute impartiality. No Umpire shall be
rhanged during a match without the consent of both
Captains.
NOTE
1.—The umpires should report themselves to the executive
of the ground 30 minutes before the start of each day’s play.
THE SCORERS
4.—All runs scored shall be recorded by Scorers appointed
for the purpose; the Scorers shall accept and acknowledge
all instructions and signals given to them by the Umpires.
NOTE
1.—The umpires should wait until a signal has been
answered by a scorer before allowing the game to proceed.
Mutual consultation between the scorers and the umpires
to clear up doubtful points is at all times permissible.
(B)— THE IMPLEMENTS OF THE GAME, AND
THE GROUND
THE BALL
5.—The Ball shall weigh not less than ounces, nor
more than 5} ounces. It shall measure not less than 8|i
inches, nor more than 9 inches in circumference. Subject
to agreement to the contrary either Captain may demand
a new ball at the start of each innings, In the event of a
ball being lost or becoming unfit for play, the Umpires
shall allow another ball to be taken into use. They shall
inform the Batsmen whenever a ball is to be changed.
NOTES
1.—All cricket balls used in First-class matches should
be approved before the start of a match by the umpires and
captains.
2.—Except in the United Kingdom, or if local regulations
provide otherwise, after 200 runs have been made off a
ball in First-class matches, the captain of the fielding side
may demand a new one. In First-class matches in the
7
United Kingdom the fielding side may demand a new ball
after 85 (6 ball) overs have been bowled with the old one.
In other grades of cricket these regulations will not apply
unless agreed before the toss for innings.
3.—Any ball substituted for one lost or becoming unfit for
play should have had similar wear or use as that of the
one discarded.
THE BAT
6.—The Bat shall not exceed inches in the widest
part; it shall not be more than 38 inches in length.
THE PITCH
7.—The Pitch is deemed to be the area of ground between
the bowling creases, 5 feet in width on cither side of the
line joining the centre of the wickets. Before the toss for
innings, the executive of the ground shall be responsible
for the selection and preparation of the Pitch; thereafter
the Umpires shall control its use and maintenance. The
Pitch shall not be changed during a match unless it becomes
unfit for play, and then only with the consent of both
Captains.
THE WICKETS
8.—The Wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel
to each other at a distance of 22 yards from stump to stump.
Each Wicket shall be 9 inches in width and consist of
three stumps with two bails upon the top. The stumps shall
be of equal and or sufficient size to prevent the ball from
passing through, with their top 28 inches above the ground.
The bails shall be each 4-J inches in length, and, when in
position on the top of the stumps, shall not project more
than { inch above them.
NOTES
1.—Except for the bail grooves the tops of the stumps
shall be dome-shaped.
2.—In a high wind the captains may agree, with the
approval of the umpires, to dispense with the use of bails
(See Law 31, Note 3).
THE BOWLING AND POPPING CREASES
9.—The Bowling crease shall be in line with the stumps;
8 feet 8 inches in length; the stumps in the centre; with a
8
Return crease at each end at right angles behind the wicket.
The Popping crease shall be marked 4 feet in front of and
parallel with the Bowling crease. Both the Return and
Popping creases shall be deemed unlimited in length.
NOTE
1.—The distance of the Popping crease from the wicket
is measured from a line running through the centre of the
stumps to the inside edge of the crease.
(C)—THE CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE
PITCH
ROLLING, MOWING AND WATERING
10.—Unless permitted by “ Special Regulations the
Pitch shall not be rolled during a match except before the
start of each innings and of each day’s play, when, if the
Captain of the batting side so elect, it may be swept and
rolled for not more than 7 minutes. In a match of less than
three days’ duration, the pitch shall not be mown during
the match unless “ Special Regulations ” so provide. In a
match of three or more days’ duration, the pitch shall be
mown under the supervision of the Umpires before play
begins on alternate days after the start of a match, but
should the pitch not be so mown on any day on account
of play not taking place, it shall be mown on the first day
on which the match is resumed and thereafter on alternate
days. (For the purpose of this Law a rest day counts as a
day). Under no circumstances shall the Pitch be watered
during a match.
NOTES
1.—The umpires are responsible that any rolling per-
mitted by this Law and carried out at the request of the
captain of the batting side, is in accordance with the regu-
lations laid down and that it is completed so as to allow
play to start at the stipulated time.
The normal rolling before the start of each day’s play
shall take place not earlier than half an hour before the
start of play, but the captain of the batting side may delay
such rolling until 10 minutes before the start of play should
he so desire.
2.—The time allowed for rolling shall be taken out of
the normal playing time if a captain declare an innings
9
closed either, (a) before play starts on any day so late that
the other captain is prevented from exercising his option in
regard to rolling under this Law, or (b) during the luncheon
interval later than 15 minutes after the start of such interval.
3.—Except in the United Kingdom, if at any time a rain
affected pitch is damaged by play thereon, it shall be swept
and rolled for a period of not more than ten consecutive
minutes at any time between the close of play on the day
on which it was damaged and the next resumption of play,
provided that:—
(i)	The umpires shall instruct the groundsman to sweep
and roll the pitch only after they have agreed that
damage caused to it as a result of play after rain
has fallen warrants such rolling additional to ths
provided for in Law 10.
(ii)	Such rolling shall in all cases be done under tl
personal supervision of both umpires and shall tai
place at such time and with such roller as th
groundsman shall consider best calculated to repaii
the damage to the pitch.
(iii)	Not more than one such additional rolling shall be
permitted as a result of rain on any particular day.
(iv)	The rolling provided for in Law 10, to take place
before the start of play shall not be permitted on
any day on which the rolling herein provided for
takes place within two hours of the time appointed
for commencement of play on that day.
COVERING THE PITCH
11.—The Pitch shall not be completely covered during a
match unless “ Special Regulations ” so provide; covers used
to protect the bowlers’ run up shall not extend to a greater
distance than feet in front of the Popping creases.
NOTE
1.—It is usual under this Law to protect the bowlers’
run up, before and during a match, both at night and, when
necessary, during the day. The covers should be removed
early each morning, if fine.
MAINTENANCE OF THE PITCH
12.—The Batsman may beat the Pitch with his bat, and
Players may secure their footholds by the use of sawdust,
provided Law 46 be not thereby contravened. In wet
10
weather the Umpires shall see that the holes made by the
Bowlers and Batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever
necessary to facilitate play*
(D)— THE CONDUCT OF THE GAME
INNINGS
13.—Each side has two innings, taken alternately, except
the case provided for in Law 14. The choice of innings shall
be decided by tossing on the field of play.
NOTE
1.—The captains should toss for innings not later than 15
minutes before the time agreed upon for play to start. The
winner of the toss may not alter his decision to bat or field
once it has been notified to the opposing captain.
2.—This Law also governs a One-day match in which
play continues after the completion of the first innings of
both sides (.See also Law 22.)
FOLLOWING INNINGS
14.—The side which bats first and leads by 150 runs in
a match of three days or more, by 100 runs in a two-day
match, or by 75 runs in a one-day match, shall have the
option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
DECLARATIONS
IS.—The Captain of the batting side may declare an
innings closed at any time during a match irrespective of
its duration.
NOTES
I.—A captain may forfeit his second innings. In this
event, the interval between innings shall be 10 minutes and
his decision must be notified to the opposing captain and
umpires in sufficient time to allow seven minutes rolling
of the pitch.
16.—When the start of play is delayed by weather Law
14 shall apply in accordance with the number of days* play
remaining from the actual start of the match.
START AND CLOSE OF PLAY AND INTERVALS
17.—The Umpires shall allow such intervals as have been
agreed upon for meals, 10 minutes between each innings
and not more than 2 minutes for each fresh batsman lo
come in. At the start of each innings and of each day’s play
11
and at the end of any interval the Umpire at the Bowler’s
end shall call “ Play ”, when the side refusing to play shall
lose the match. After “ Play ” has been called no trial ball
shall be allowed to any player, and when one of the Batsmen
is out the use of the bat shall not be allowed to any player
until the next Batsman shall come in.
NOTES
1.—The umpires shall not award a match under this Law
unless Ci) “ Play ” has been called in such a manner that
both siaes can clearly understand that play is to start, (ii)
an appeal has been made, and (iii) they are satisfied that a
side will not, or cannot, continue play.
2.—It is an essential duty of the captains to ensure that
die “ in-going ” batsman passes the “ out-coming ” one
before the latter leaves the field of play. This is all the more
important in view of the responsibility resting on the
umpires for deciding whether or not the delay of the
individual amounts to a refusal of the batting side to
continue play.
3.—The interval for luncheon should not exceed 45 min-
utes unless otherwise agreed (but see Law 10, Note 2).
In the event of the last wicket falling within 2 minutes of
rhe time arranged for luncheon or tea, the game shall be
resumed at the usual hour, no allowance being made for
the 10 minutes between the innings.
4.—Bowling practice on the pitch is forbidden at any time
during the game.
18.—The Umpires shall call u Time,” and at the same
time remove the bails from both wickets, on the cessation
of play before any arranged interval, at the end of each
day’s play, and at the conclusion of the match. An “ Over ”
shall always be started if u Time ” has not been reached,
and shall be completed unless a batsman is M Out ” or
“ Retires ” within 2 minutes of the completion of any period
of play, but the “ Over ” in progress at the dose of play
on the final day of a match shall be completed at the
request of either Captain even if a wicket fall after “ Time ”
has been reached.
NOTES
1.—If, during the completion of the last over of any
period of play, the players have occasion to leave the field,
12
the Umpires shall call “time.” In the case of the last over
of the match, there shall be no resumption of play and the
match shall be at an end.
2.—The last over before an interval or the close of play
shall be started, provided the umpire standing at square
leg, after walking at his normal pace, has arrived at his
position behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before time
has been reached. The above provision will apply if the
batsman is “ Out ” off, or “ Retires ” after the last ball
of an over when less than two minutes remain for play at
the conclusion of the match.
SCORING
19.—The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is
scored:—
1st—So often as the Batsmen after a hit, or at any time
while the ball is in play, shall have crossed and made
good their ground from end to end; but if either Batsman
run a short run, the Umpire shall call and signal “ One
short ” and that run shall not be scored. The Striker
being caught, no run shall be scored; a Batsman being
run out, that run which was being attempted shall not
be scored.
2nd.—For penalties under Laws 21, 27, 29, 44 and boundary
allowances under Law 20.
NOTES
1.—If while the ball is in play, the batsmen have crossed
in running, neither returns to the wicket he has left except
in the case of a boundary hit, or a boundary from extras,
or under Laws 30 Note 1 and 46 Note 4 (vii). This rule
applies even should a short run have been called, or should
no run be reckoned as in the case of a catch.
2.—A run is “ short ” if either or both, batsmen fail to
make good their ground in turning for a further run.
Although such a “ short ” run shortens the succeeding
one, the latter, if completed, counts. Similarly a batsman
taking stance in front of his popping crease may run from
that point without penalty.
3.-—(i) One run only is deducted if both batsmen are
short in one and the same run.
(ii) Only if three or more runs are attempted can more
than one run be “ short ” and then, subject to (i) above, all
runs so called shall be disallowed.
13
(iii) If cither or both batsmen deliberately run short, the
umpire is justified in calling “ Dead Ball ” and disallowing
any runs attempted or scored as soon as he sees that the
fielding side have no chance of dismissing either batsman
under the Laws.
4.—An umpire signals “ short ” runs when the ball be-
comes “ dead ” by bending his arm upwards to touch the
shoulder with the tips of his fingers. If there has been more
than one “ short ” run the umpires must instruct the scorer
as to the number of runs disallowed. (See Note 1 to Law 4
BOUNDARIES
20.—Before the toss for innings the Umpires shall agrd
with both sides on the Boundaries for play, and on the
allowances to be made for them. An Umpire shall call or
signal “ Boundary ” whenever, in his opinion, a ball in play
hits, crosses or is carried over the Boundary. The runs
completed at the instant the ball reaches the Boundary shall
count only should they exceed the allowance, but if the
“ Boundary ” result from an overthrow or from the wilful
act of a fieldsman, any runs already made and the allow-
ance shall be added to the score.
NOTES
1.—If flags or posts arc used to mark a boundary, the
real or imaginary line joining such points shall be regarded
as the boundary, which should be marked by a white line
if possible.
2.—In deciding on the allowances to be made for bound-
aries the umpires will be guided by the prevailing custom
of the ground.
3.—It is a “ Boundary ” if the ball touches any boundary
line or if a fieldsman with ball in hand grounds any pan
of his person on or over that line. A fieldsman, however,
standing within the playing area may lean against or touch
a boundary fence in fielding a ball (See also Law 35, Note 5).
4.—An obstacle, or person, within the playing area is
not regarded as a boundary unless so arranged by the um-
pires. The umpire is not a boundary, but sight screens
within the playing area shall be so regarded.
5.—The customary allowance for a boundary is 4 runs,
but it is usual to allow 6 runs for all hits pitching over
and clear of the boundary line or fence (even though the
14
ball has been previously touched by a fieldsman). It is
not usual to allow 6 runs when a ball hits a sight screen
full pitch, if the latter is on or inside the boundary.
6.—In the case of a boundary resulting from either an
overthrow or the wilful act of a fieldsman, the run in
progress counts provided that the batsmen have crossed at
the instant of the throw or act.
7.—The umpire signals “ Boundary ” by waving an arm
from side to side, or a boundary “6” by raising both arms
above the head.
LOST BALL
21.—If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered
any Fieldsman may call “ Lost Ball ”, when 6 runs shall
be added to the score; but if more than 6 have been run
before “ Lost Ball ” be called, as many runs as have been
run shall be scored.
THE RESULT
22.—A match is won by the side which shall have
scored a total of runs in excess of that scored by the
opposing side in its two completed innings; one-day
matches, unless thus played out, shall be decided by the
first innings. A match may also be determined by being
given up as lost by one of the sides, or in the case
governed by Law 17. A match not determined in any of
these ways shall count as a “ Draw.”
NOTES
1.—It is the responsibility of the captains to satisfy
themselves on the correctness of the scores on the con-
clusion of play.
2.—Neither side can be compelled to continue after a
match is finished; a one-day match shall not be regarded
as finished on the result of the first innings if the umpires
consider there is a prospect of carrying the game to a
further issue in the time remaining.
3.—The result of a finished match is stated as a win by
runs, except in the case of a win by the side batting last,
when it is by the number of wickets still then to fall. In a
one-day match which is not played out on the second
innings, this rule applies to the position at the time when
a result on the first innings was reached.
4.—A. “ Draw ” is regarded as a “ Tie ” when the scores
15
are equal at the conclusion of play but only if the match
has been played out. If the scores of the completed first
innings of a one-day match arc equal, it is a “ Tie ”, but
only if the match has not been played out to a further
conclusion.
THE OVER
23.—The ball shall be bowled from each wicket alternately
in Overs of either 8 or 6 balls according to the agreed
conditions of play. When the agreed number have been
bowled and it has become clear to the Umpire at the
Bowler’s wicket that both sides have ceased to regard the
ball as in play, the Umpire shall call “Over ” in a distinct
manner before leaving the wicket. Neither a “ No Ball ”
nor a “ Wide Ball ” shall be reckoned as one of the “ Over.”
NOTE
1.—In the United Kingdom the “over” shall be 6 balls,
unless an agreement to the contrary has been made.
24.—A Bowler shall finish an “ Over ” in progress unless
he be incapacitated or be suspended for unfair play. He
shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, pro-
vided only that he shall not bowl two “ Overs ” con-
secutively in one innings. A Bowler may require the
Batsman at the wicket from which he is bowling to stand
on whichever side of it he may direct
DEAD BALL
25.—The ball shall be held to be “ Dead ”—on being in
the opinion of the Umpire finally settled in the hands of
the Wicket-keeper or of the Bowler; or on reaching or
pitching over the boundary; or, whether played or not on
lodging in the dress of either a Batsman or Umpire; or
on the call of “ Over ” or “ Time ” by the Umpire; or
on a Batsman being out from any cause: or on any penalty
being awarded under Laws 21 or 44. The Umpire shall
call “ Dead Ball ” should he decide to intervene under
Law 46 in a case of unfair play or in the event of a
serious injury to a player; or should he require to suspend
play prior to the Striker receiving a delivery. The ball
shall cease to be “ Dead ” on the Bowler starting his run
or bowling action.
16
NOTES
1.—Whether the ball is “ finally settled ” is a question
of fact for the umpire alone to decide.
2.—An umpire is justified in suspending play prior to
the striker receiving a delivery in any of the following
circumstances:—
(i)	If satisfied that, for an adequate reason, the striker
is not ready to receive the ball, and makes no
attempt to play it.
(ii)	If the bowler drops the ball accidentally before
delivery, or if the ball does not leave his hand for
any reason.
(iii)	If one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket
before he receives the delivery.
In such cases the ball is regarded as “ Dead ” from the
time it last came into play.
3.—A ball does not become “ Dead ” when it strikes an
umpire (unless it lodges in his dress), when the wicket is
broken or struck down (unless a batsman is out thereby), or
when an unsuccessful appeal is made.
4.—For the purpose of this and other Laws, the term
“ dress ” includes the equipment and clothing of players
and umpires as normally worn.
NO BALL
26.—For a delivery to be fair the ball must be bowled,
not thrown or jerked; if either Umpire be not entirely
satisfied of the absolute fairness of a delivery in this respect,
he shall call and signal “ No Ball ” instantly upon delivery.
The Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall call and signal “ No
Ball ” if he is not satisfied that at the instant of delivery
the Bowler has at least some part of one foot behind the
Bowling crease and within the Return crease, and not
touching or grounded over either crease.
NOTES
I.—Subject to the provisions of the Law being complied
with a bowler is not debarred from delivering the ball with
both feet behind the bowling crease.
2.—The striker is entitled to know whether the bowler
intends to bowl over or round the wicket, overarm or
underarm, right or left handed. An umpire may regard any
failure to notify a change in the mode of delivery as
“ unfair ”, if so, he should call “ No ball.”
17
•J.—It is a “ No Ball ” if the bowler before delivering a
ball throws it at the striker’s wicket even in an attempt to
run him out (.See Law 46, Note 4 (vii)).
4.—If a bowler break the near wicket with any pan of
his person during the delivery, such act in itself does not
constitute “ No Ball.”
5.—The umpire signals “ No Ball” by extending one arm
horizontally.
6.—An umpire should revoke the call “ No Ball ” if the
ball docs not leave the bowler’s hand for any reason.
27.—The ball docs not become “ Dead ” on the call of
“ No Ball.” The Striker may hit a “ No Ball ” and what-
ever runs result shall be added to his score, but runs mad
otherwise from a “ No Ball ” shall be scored “ No Balls,
and if no runs be made one run shall be so scored. Th
Striker shall be out from a “ No Ball ” if he break Law 37,
and either Batsman may be run out, or given out if he
break Laws 36 or 40.
NOTES
1.—The penalty for a “No Ball” is only scored if no
runs result otherwise.
2.—Law 46 Note 4 (vii) covers attempts to run before
the ball is delivered, but should the non-striker unfairly
leave his ground too soon, the fielding side may run out
the batsman at the bowler’s end by any recognised method.
If the bowler throws at the near wicket, the umpire does
not call “ No Ball,” though any runs resulting are so scored.
The throw does not count in the “ Over.”
WIDE BALL
28.—If the Bowler shall bowl the ball so high over or so
so wide of the wicket that in the opinion of the Umpire it
passes out of reach of the Striker, and would not have been
within his reach when taking guard in the normal position,
the Umpire shall call and signal “ Wide Ball ” as soon as
it shall have passed the Striker.
NOTES
1.—If a ball which the umpire considers to have been
delivered comes to rest in front of the striker “Wide”
should not be called, and no runs should be added to the
score unless they result from the striker hitting the ball
which he has a right to do without interference by the
18
fielding side. Should the fielding side interfere, the umpire
is justified in replacing the ball where it came to rest and
ordering the fieldsman to resume the places they occupied
in the field before the ball was delivered.
2.—The umpire signals “ Wide ” by extending both arms
horizontally.
3.—An umpire should revoke the call if the striker hits
a ball which has been called “ Wide.”
29.—The ball does not become “ Dead ” on the call of
M Wide Ball.” All runs that are run from a “ Wide Ball ”
shall be scored “Wide Balls,” or if no runs be made one
run shall be so scored. The Striker may be out from a
“ Wide Ball ” if he breaks Laws 38 or 42, and either Bats-
man may be run out, or given out if he break Laws 36 or 40.
BYE AND LEG BYE
30.—If the ball, not having been called “ Wide ” or “ No
Ball,” pass the Striker without touching his bat or person,
and any runs be obtained, the Umpire shall call or signal
“ Bye but if the ball touch any part of the Striker’s dress
or person except his hand holding the bat, and any run be
obtained, the Umpire shall call or signal “Leg Bye such
runs to be scored “ Byes ” and “ Leg Byes ” respectively.
NOTES
1.—The umpire shall regard the deliberate deflection of
the ball by any part of the striker’s person, except the hand
holding the bat, as unfair, and as soon as he is satisfied
that the fielding side have no chance of dismissing either
batsman as an immediate result of such action, he shall,
without delay, call “ dead ball.” In deciding whether such
deflection is deliberate, the criterion shall be whether or not
the batsman has attempted to play the ball with his bat.
2.—The umpire signals “ Bye ” by raising an open hand
above the head, and “ Leg Bye ” by touching a raised knee
with the hand.
THE WICKET IS DOWN
31.—The wicket shall be held to be “ Down ” if either
the ball or the Striker’s bat or person completely removes
either bail from the top of the stumps or, if both bails be
off, strikes a stump out of the ground. Any player may use
his hand or arm to put the wicket down or, even should
19
the bails be previously off, may pull up a stump, provided
always that the ball is held in the hand or hands so used.
NOTES
1.—A wicket is not “down” merely on account of the
disturbance of a bail, but it is “down” if a bail in falling
from the wicket lodges between two of the stumps.
2.—If one bail is off, it is sufficient for the purpose of
this Law to dislodge the remaining one in any of the ways
stated, or to strike any of the three stumps out of the ground.
3.—If, owing to the strength of the wind, the captains
have agreed to dispense with the use of bails (see Law 8,
Note 2), the decision as to when the wicket is “ down ” is
one for the umpires to decide on the facts before them.
In such circumstances the wicket would be held to be
“ down ” even though a stump has not been struck out of
the ground.
4.—If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play,
it is not the umpire’s duty to remake the wicket until the
ball has become “ dead.” A fieldsman, however, may re-
make the wicket in such circumstances.
5.—For the purpose of this and other Laws the term
“ person ” includes a player’s dress as defined in Law 25,
Note 4.
OUT OF HIS GROUND
32.—A Batsman shall be held to be “ Out of his ground ”
unless some part of his bat in hand or of his person be
grounded behind the line of the Popping Crease.
BATSMAN RETIRING
33.—A Batsman may retire at any time, but may not
resume his innings without the consent of the opposing
Captain, and then only on the fall of a wicket
NOTE
1.—When a batsman has retired owing to illness, injury.
or some other unavoidable cause, his innings is recorded
as “ Retired, Not out,” but otherwise as a completed innings
to be recorded as “ Retired, Out.”
BOWLED
34.—The Striker is out “ Bowled ”—If the wicket be
bowled down, even if the ball first touch his bat or person.
20
NOTES
1.—The striker, after playing the ball, is out “Bowled”
if he then kicks or hits it on to his wicket before the
completion of his stroke.
2.—The striker is out “Bowled” under this Law when
the ball is deflected on to his wicket off his person, even
though a decision against him might be justified under
Law 39 L.B.W.
CAUGHT
35.—The Striker is out “ Caught ”—If the ball, from a
stroke of the bat or of the hand holding the bat, but not
the wrist, be held by a Fieldsman before it touch the ground,
although it be hugged to the body of the catcher, or be
accidentally lodged in his dress. The Fieldsman must have
both his feet entirely within the playing area at the instant
the catch is completed.
NOTES
1.—Provided the ball does not touch the ground, the
hand holding it may do so in effecting a catch.
2.—The umpire is justified in disregarding the fact that
the ball has touched the ground, or has been carried over
the boundary provided that a catch has in fact been com-
pleted prior to such occurrence.
3.—The fact that a ball has touched the striker’s person
before or after touching his bat does not invalidate a catch.
4.—The striker may be “ Caught ” even if the fieldsman
has not touched the ball with his hands, including the case
of a ball lodging in the wicket-keeper’s pads.
5.—A fieldsman standing within the playing area may lean
against a boundary to catch a ball, and this may be done
even if the ball has passed over the boundary.
6.—If the striker lawfully plays the ball a second time
he may be out under this Law, but only if the ball has not
touched the ground since being first struck.
7.—The striker may be caught off any obstruction within
the playing area provided it has not previously been decided
on as a boundary.
HANDLED THE BALL
36.—Either Batsman is out “ Handled the Ball ”—If lie
touch it while in play with his hands, unless it be done at
the request of the opposite side.
21
NOTES
1.—A hand holding the bat is regarded as part of it for
the purposes of Laws 36, 37, and 39.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman
is given but under this Law is “ Handled the Ball,” and the
bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
HIT THE BALL TWICE
37.—The Striker is out “ Hit the ball twice ”—If the ball
be struck or be stopped by any part of his person, and he
wilfully strike it again, except for the sole purpose of
guarding his wicket, which he may do with his bat or an
part of his person, other than his hands. No runs excep
those which result from an overthrow shall be scored froi
a ball lawfully struck twice.
NOTES
1.—It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball has
been so struck a second time legitimately or not. The
umpire may regard the fact that a run is attempted as
evidence of the batsmen’s intention to take advantage of
the second stroke, but it is not conclusive.
2.—A batsman may not attempt to hit the ball twice, if
in so doing he baulks the wicket-keeper or any fieldsman
attempting to make a catch.
3.—This Law is infringed if the striker, after playing the
ball and without any request from the opposite side, uses
his bat to return the ball to a fieldsman.
4.-—The correct entry in the score book when the striker
is given out under this Law is “ Hit the ball twice,” and
the bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
HIT WICKET
38.—The Striker is out “ Hit wicket ”—If in playing at
the ball he hit down his wicket with his bat or any part
of his person.
NOTES
1.—The striker is “ Out ” under this Law if:—
(i)	In making a second stroke to keep the ball out of his
wicket he hits it down.
22
(ii)	While playing at the ball, but not otherwise, his
wicket is broken by his cap or hat falling, or by part of
his bat.
2.—A batsman is not out for breaking the wicket with
his bat or person while in the act of running.
L.B.W.
39.—The Striker is out “ Leg before wicket ”—If with
any part of his person except his hand, which is in a straight
line between wicket and wicket, even though the point of
impact be above the level of the bails, he intercept a ball
which has not first touched his bat or hand, and which,
in the opinion of the Umpire, shall have, or would have,
pitched on a straight line from the Bowler’s wicket to the
Striker’s wicket, or shall have pitched on the off-side of
the Striker’s wicket, provided always that the ball would
have hit the wicket.
NOTES
1.—The word “ hand ” used in this Law should be in-
terpreted as the hand holding the bat.
2.—A batsman is only “ Out ” under this Law if all the
four following questions are answered in the affirmative.
(i)	Would the ball have hit the wicket?
(ii)	Did the ball pitch on a straight line between wicket
and wicket (and this case includes a ball intercepted
full pitch by the striker), or did it pitch on the
offsiac of the striker’s wicket?
(iii)	Was it part of the striker’s person other than the
hand which first intercepted the ball?
(iv)	Was that pan of the striker’s person in a straight
line between wicket and wicket at the moment of
impact, irrespective of the height of the point of
impact?
OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
40.—Either Batsman is out “ Obstructing the field If
he wilfully obstruct the opposite side; should such wilful
obstruction by either Batsman prevent a ball from being
caught it is the Striker who is out.
NOTES
1.—The umpire must decide whether the obstruction was
“ wilful ” or not. The involuntary interception by a batsman
23
while running of a throw in is not in itself an offence.
2.—The correct entry in the score book when a batsman
is given out under this Law is “ Obstructing the field,” and
the bowler docs not get credit for the wicket.
RUN OUT
41.—Either Batsman is out “ Run out ”—If in running or
at any time, while the ball is in play, he be out of his ground,
and his wicket be put down by the opposite side. If the
batsmen have crossed each other, he that runs for the
wicket which is put down is out; if they have not crossed,
he that has left the wicket which is put down is out But
unless he attempt to run, the Striker shall not be give*
“ Run out ” in the circumstances stated in Law 42, eve
should “ No Ball ” have been called.
NOTE
1.—If the ball is played on to the opposite wickc.
neither batsman is liable to be “ Run out ” unless the ball
has been touched by a fieldsman before the wicket is put
down.
STUMPED
42.—A Striker is out “ Stumped ”—If in receiving a ball,
not being a “ No Ball,” delivered by the Bowler, he be out
of his ground otherwise than in attempting a run, and the
wicket be put down by the Wicket-keeper without the
intervention of another fieldsman. Only when the ball has
touched the bat or person of the Striker may the Wicket-
keeper take it in front of the wicket for this purpose.
NOTE
1.—The striker may be “Stumped” if the wicket is
broken by a ball rebounding from the wicket-keeper’s
person.
THE WICKET-KEEPER
43.—The Wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the
wicket until a ball delivered by the Bowler touches the bat
or person of the Striker, or passes the wicket, or until the
Striker attempts a run. Should the Wicket-keeper contravene
this Law, the Striker shall not be out except under Laws
36, 37, 40, and 41 and then only subject to Law 46.
NOTES
1.—This Law is provided to secure to the striker his right
to play the ball and to guard his wicket without interference
24
from the wicket-keeper. The striker may not be penalised
if in the legitimate defence of his wicket he interferes with
the wicket-keeper, except as provided for in Law 37, Note 2.
2.—If, in the opinion of the umpire, the encroachment by
the wicket-keeper has not gained any advantage for the
fielding side, nor in any way has interfered with the right
of the striker to play the ball with complete freedom, nor
has had any effect whatsoever on die dismissal of the striker,
he shall disregard the infringement.
THE FIELDSMAN
44.—The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of
his person, but if he wilfully stop it otherwise five runs shall
be added to die run or runs already made; if no run has
been made five shall be scored. The penalty shall be added
to the score of the Striker if the ball has been struck, but
otherwise to the score of Byes, Leg Byes, No Balls or Wides
as the case may be.
NOTES
1.—A fieldsman must not use his cap, etc., for the purpose
of fielding a ball.
2.—The five runs are a penalty and the batsmen do not
change ends.
(E)—DUTIES OF THE UMPIRES
45.—Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall
acquaint themselves with any “ Special Regulations”, and
shall agree with both Captains on any other conditions
affecting the conduct of the match; shall satisfy themselves
that the wickets are properly pitched; and shall agree, be-
tween themselves on the watch or clock to be followed
during play.
NOTES
1.—Apart from “ Special Regulations ” other conditions of
play within the framework of the Laws are frequendy
necessary, e.g. Hours of play, Intervals, etc.
2.—The captains are entitled to know which clock or
watch will be followed during play.
46.—Before and during a match the Umpires shall ensure
that the conduct of the game and the implements used are
strictiy in accordance with the Laws; they are the sole
25
judges of fair and unfair play, and the final judges of the
fitness of the ground, the weather and the light for play
the event of the decision being left to them; all disputes
shall be determined by them, and if they disagree the actual
state of things shall continue. The Umpires shall change
ends after each side has had one innings.
NOTES
1.—An umpire should stand where he can best see any
act upon which his decision may be required. Subject to
this over-riding consideration the umpire at the bowler’s
end should stand where he does not interfere with cithe
the bowler’s run up or the striker’s view. If the oth<
umpire wishes to stand on the off instead of the leg sic
of the pitch he should obtain the permission of the capta
of the fielding side and inform the batsman.
2.—The umpires must not allow the attitude of the players
or spectators to influence their decisions under the Laws.
3.—A code of signals for umpires is laid down in Notes
to the relevant Laws; but an umpire must call as well as
signal, if necessary, to inform the players and scorers.
4.—FAIR AND UNFAIR PLAY.
(i)	The umpires are entitled to intervene without appeal
in the case of unfair play, but should not otherwise
interfere with the progress of the game, except as
required to do so by the Laws.
(ii)	In the event of a player failing to comply with the
instructions of an umpire or criticising his decisions,
the umpires should in the first place request the
captains to take action, and if this proves ineffective,
report the incident forthwith to the executives of the
teams taking part in the match.
(iii)	It is illegal for a player to lift the seam of the ball
in order to obtain a better hold. In such a case the
umpire will if necessary change the ball for one which
has had similar wear, and will warn the captain that
the practice is unfair. The use of resin, wax, etc., by
bowlers is also unfair, but a bowler may dry the ball
when wet on a towel or with sawdust.
(iv)	An umpire is justified in intervening under this Law
should any player of the fielding siae incommode the
26
striker by any noise or motion while he is receiving
a ball.
(v)	It is the duty of umpires to intervene and prevent
players from causing damage to the pitch which may
assist the bowlers.
(vi)	The persistent bowling of fast short-pitched balls at
the batsman is unfair if, in the opinion of the umpire
at the bowler’s end, it constitutes a systematic attempt
at intimidation. In such event he must adopt the
following procedure:—
(a)	When he decides that such bowling is becoming
persistent he forthwith “ cautions ” the bowler.
(b)	If this “ caution ” is ineffective, he informs the
captain of the fielding side and the other umpire
of what has occurred.
(c)	Should the above prove ineffective, the umpire at
the bowler’s end must:—
(i)	At the first repetition call “ Dead Ball,” when
the over is regarded as completed.
(ii)	Direct the captain of the fielding side to take
the bowler off forthwith. The captain shall take
the bowler off as directed.
(iii)	Report the occurrence to the captain of the
batting side as soon as an interval of play
takes place.
A bowler who has been “ taken off” as above
may not bowl again during the same innings.
(vii)	Any attempt by rhe batsmen to steal a run during
the bowler’s run up is unfair. Unless the bowler
throws the ball at either wicket (see Laws 26, Note 3,
and 27, Note 2), the umpire should call “ Dead Ball ”
as soon as the batsmen cross in any such attempt to
run, after which they return to their original wickets.
(viii)	No player shall leave the field for the purpose of
having a rub down or shower while play is actually
in progress.
5.—GROUND, WEATHER AND LIGHT.
(i)	Unless agreement to the contrary is made before the
start of a match, the captains (during actual play the
batsmen at the wickets may deputise for their captain)
may elect to decide in regard to the fitness of the
27
ground, weather or light for play; otherwise or in
the event of disagreement, the umpires arc required
to decide.
(ii)	Play should only be suspended when the conditions
are so bad that it is unreasonable or dangerous for it
to continue. The ground is unfit for play when water
stands on the surface or when it is so wet or slippery
as to deprive the batsmen or bowlers of a reasonable
foothold, or the fieldsmen of the power of free mov-
ment. Play should not be suspended merely becaus
the grass is wet and the ball slippery.
(iii)	After any suspension of play, the captains, or, if th
decision has been left to them, the umpires, unaccom.
panied by any of the players, will without further
instructions carry out an inspection immediately the
conditions improve, and will continue to inspect at
intervals. Immediately the responsible parties decide
that play is possible, they must call upon the players
to resume the game.
APPEALS
47.—The Umpires shall not order a Batsman out unless
appealed to by the other side which shall be done prior to
the delivery of the next ball, and before “ Time ” is called
under Law 18. The Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall
answer appeals before the other Umpire in all cases except
those arising out of Laws 38 or 42 and out of Law 41 for
run out at the Striker’s wicket. In any case in which an
Umpire is unable to give a decision, he shall appeal to the
other Umpire whose decision shall be final.
NOTES
1.—An appeal, “How’s that?” covers all ways of being
out (within the jurisdiction of the umpire appealed to),
unless a specific way of getting out is stated by the person
asking. When either umpire has given a batsman “ Not out ”
the other umpire may answer any appeal within his jurisdic-
tion, provided it is made in time.
2.—The umpire signals “ Out ” by raising the index
finger above the head. If the batsman is not out, the
umpire calls “ Not out.”
3.—An umpire may alter his decision provided that such
alteration is made promptly.
28
4.—Nothing in this Law prevents an umpire before giving
a decision from consulting the other umpire on a point of
fact which the latter may have been in a better position to
observe. An umpire should not appeal to the other umpire
in cases on which he could give a decision, merely because
he is unwilling to give that decision. If after consultation
he is still in any doubt, the principle laid down in Law 46
applies and the decision will be in favour of the batsman.
5.—The umpires should intervene if satisfied that a bats-
man, not having been given out, has left his wicket under
a misapprehension.
6.—Under Law 25 the ball is “ Dead ” on “ Over ” being
called; this does not invalidate an appeal made prior io
the first ball of the following “ Over,” provided the bails
have not been removed by both umpires after “ Time ” has
been called.
NOTES FOR SCORERS AND UMPIRES
1.—(a) Law 4 explains the status of the scorers in relation
to the umpires.
(fc>) During the progress of the game, if two scorers have
been appointed, they should frequently check the total to
ensure that the score sheets agree.
(c) The following method of entering “ No Balls ” and
" Wides ” (Laws 27 and 29) in the score sheet is recom-
mended:—
(i)	If no run is scored from the bat off a “ No Ball,” the
latter should be entered as an “ Extra,” and a dot
placed in the bowling analysis with a circle round
it to show that the ball does not count in the over.
(ii)	If runs are scored from the bat off a “ No Ball,” they
should be credited to the striker, and entered in
the bowling analysis with a circle round the figure.
Such runs count against the bowler in his analysis
even though the ball does not count in the over.
(iii)	All runs scored from “ Wide Balls ” are entered as
“Extras,” and inserted in the bowler’s analysis with
a cross to indicate that the ball does not count in the
over.
29
2.—The following code of signalling between the umpires
and the scorers has been approved:—
Boundaries—by waving the hand from side to side.
A boundary six—by raising both arms above the head.
Byes—by raising the open hand above the head.
Leg Byes—by touching a raised knee with the hand.
Wides—by extending both arms horizontally.
No Balls—by extending one arm horizontally.
The decision “ Out,”—by raising the index finger
above the head.
“ One Short ”—by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest shoulder with the
tips of the fingers of one hand.
3.—If the above instructions are properly carried out.
cases of disagreement as regards the scores and the result
of matches should not occur.
It is, however, important that the captains should satisf
themselves of the correctness of the scores on the conclusio
of play, as errors cannot subsequently be corrected.
It should be noted that, in general, by accepting the result
notified by the scorers, the captain of the losing side has
thereby acquiesced in the “ playing out or giving up ” of
the match as stated in Law 22.
REGULATIONS FOR DRYING THE PITCH
AND GROUND IN FIRST-CLASS MATCHES
N.B.—These regulations are primarily designed for First-class
Cricket, and their application in whole or in part in other
grades of Cricket is at the discretion of the ground, etc.,
authorities.
1.—Except as provided below, the existing regulations in
regard to the rolling of the pitch and the fitness of the
ground for play shall apply. (See Laws 10, 12 and 46).
2.—(i) To enable play to proceed with the least possible
delay after rain, the groundsman shall adopt every practical
means to protect or rid the surface of the ground, other than
the pitch, of water or dampness at any time except while
play is in progress.
(ii) Prior to tossing for choice of innings the artificial
drying of the pitch and outfield shall be at the discretion of
the Groundsman. Thereafter and throughout the match the
30
drying of the outfield may be undertaken at any time by
the Groundsman, but the drying of the pitch shall be
carried out only on the instructions and under the super-
vision of the Umpires. The Umpires shall be empowered to
have the pitch dried without a reference to the Captains
at any time they are of the opinion that it is unfit for play.
(iii)	In wet weather, the Umpires shall see that the foot-
holes made by the bowlers and batsmen are cleaned, dried
and filled up with sawdust at any time during the match,
although the game is not actually in progress.
The Groundsman, without instructions from the Umpires,
may also clean out in this way foot-holes, provided they are
not on any part of the pitch, more than 3ft. 6ins. in front
of the Popping creases.
The drying of the footholds on the pitch itself may be
undertaken, as directed by the Umpires, at any time. The
Umpires may also direct the Groundsman to protect against
further rain, marks made by the bowlers, even though they
be more than 3ft. 6ins. in front of the popping creases,
provided they are not between wicket and wicket, with
loose sawdust, which, however, shall be removed prior to
the resumption of play.
(iv)	The Umpires shall ascertain from the Groundsman
before the commencement of a match, what equipment is
available for drying the pitch artificially.
Any roller may be used, if the Umpires think desirable
but only (except as laid down in paragraph (2) (v)) for the
purpose of drying the pitch and making it fit for play, and
not otherwise. This would allow Umpires to roll the pitch
after drying it, say with a light roller, for a minute or two,
should they consider it desirable.
(v)	When the artificial drying of the pitch, under the
supervision of the Umpires, coincides with any interval
during the match, after the toss for choice of innings, the
Umpires, and not the Captain of the batting side shall select
the roller to be used.
(vi)	The fact that the Umpires may have dried the pitch
artificially does not take the decision as regards the fitness
of the pitch and ground for play out of the hands of the
Captains even though the Umpires may have selected the
roller to be used for the drying process. Law 46, Note 5
(i) is applicable in such cases.
31
INDEX TO THE LAWS OF CRICKET
Laws Appealing:	Notes	Pages
General rules for ... ... 47 Method of 		47 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 47 1	27, 28 27
Time limit for 	 47 Bails: Dispensed with in high	47 6	27, 28
wind Replacing of, while ball in play 	 Size of 	 8 To be removed when um- pires call “Time” ... 18 Ball: See also “DEAD BALL” and “LOST BALL” Captains and umpires to inspect		8 2; 31 3 31 4 5 1	7, 19 1’ 11 6
Changing	 5 Provision of new ball ... 5 Size an weight of ... 5 Bat: Practice with prohibited ... 17 Size of ... ... ... 6 Batsmen: Breaking wicket in running Changing ends 	 Dismissal of, see “OUT” “Out of his ground” ... 32 Position of non-striker ... 24 Retirement of and re- sumption of innings by 33	5 3; 46 4<iii) 5 2 38 2 19 1 33 1	6, 25 6 6 11 7 22 12 19 15 19
Time allowed to come in 17 Boundaries: General rules and allow-	17 1, 2	10
ances for ... ... 20 How signalled 	 Bowled: See “OUT” Bowler: Sec also “ UNFAIR PLAY” Changing ends ... ... 24	20 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 20 7	6 13, 14 14 15
32
Laws	Notes	Pages
Changing mode of delivery 26 2 Incapacitated or suspended during an “over5’ 24 Trial balls, and practice on pitch prohibited ... 17 17 4 “Byes” and “ Leg Byes”: Calling and signalling ... 30 2 General rules 	 30 30 1 How scored ... ... 30 Captains: See “PLAYERS”, etc. Caught: :See “OUT” Conditions of play: Special regulations ... 45 45 1 Conduct of the game: See “ UMPIRES ” Creases: Bowling ... ... ... 9 Popping 	 9 9 1 Return 	 9 “ Dead Ball ”: Ball coming into play ... 25 General rules for	 25 25 1. 2		16 15 11 18 18 18 24 7 8 8 15 15, 16
When ball is not “ dead ” 25 27, 29 Declarations: General rules 	 15 When start is delayed ... 16 Dress: Definition of	25 3 15 1 25 4; 31 5	16 17, 18 10 10 16, 19
Fieldsmen: May only stop ball with person 	 44 Penalty for unfair methods 44 Provisions for fielding on or oyer the boundary ...	44 1 44 2 20 3; 35 5	24 24 13, 20
Substitutes for ... ... 2 Follow-on: General rules 	 14 When start is delayed ... 16 Ground, Weather and Light: Fitness for play	 46	2 1 46 5	5 10 10 26, 27
33
Li	nus	Notes	Pages
Regulations for Drying: Handled the Ball: See “OUT” Hit the Ball twice: See “OUT* Hit Wicket: See “OUT” Implements of game: Umpires to inspect	46	5 1	6, 24
Innings: See also “DECLARATIONS” and			
“FOLLOW-ON.” General rules for	13	13 2	10
Tossing for choice of ...	13	13 1	K
Intervals: General rules	17	10 2; 17 3	8, 9, 10, 1
For meals ...	17	17 3	1
Rule for fresh batsman ...	17	17 2	lx
L.B.W.: See “OUT” “Leg Bye”: See “ BYES,” etc. Light: See “ GROUND,” etc. Lost Ball: Rule for ... ... ... 21			14
Matches: Definition of 		1	1 2	5
Drawn	22		14
Given up (or refusal to play) 		17	17 1, 2	11
One-day 		22	22 2	14
Result of ...	22	22 1, 2, 3	14
“ Tie ” 			22 4	14
Mowing: See “ PITCH ” “No Ball”: Ball is not “dead**	27		17
Batsmen may be “out” off	27		17
Bowler, accidentally breaks near wicket 			26 4	17
Bowler, changing mode of delivery ...		26 2	16
Bowler, throwing at wicket		26 3; 27 2	17
Calling and signalling ...	26	26 5, 6	17
General rules	26	26 1, 4, 6	16, 17
How scored	27	27 1	17
Not to reckon in “over”	23		15
34
	Laws		Notes Pages
Striker cannot be stumped			
off 		41,42		23
Striker may score off	.. 27		17
Obstructing the Field: See	“OUT”		
One-Day Matches: See “MATCHES”			
“ Out ”:			
Bowled	.. 34	34	1, 2 20
Caught 		.. 35	19	1 12, 20
		35	1,2,3, 4, 5,6,7 20
Handled the ball ...	.. 36	36	1, 2 20, 21
Hit the ball twice...	.. 37	35	6; 37 1, 2, 3, 4 20, 21
Hit wicket	.. 38	38	1, 2 21, 22
How signalled		47	2 27
L.B.W. 		” 39	34	2; 39 1, 2 20, 22
Obstructing the field	. 40	37	2; 40 1,2 21,22,23
Run out 		. 41	41	1 23
Stumped ...	. 42	42	1 23
Out of his Ground ”			
Definition	.. 32		19
“ Over ”:			
General rules	23, 24		15
“No balls” and “wides”			
not to reckon ...	.. 23		15
Number of balls to	. 23	23	1 15
Rules re finishing	18, 24		11, 15
Overthrows: See “SCORING”			
Penalties: See “ SCORING			
Person:			
Definition of		25	4; 31 5 16, 19
Hand regarded as part <	)f		
bat		36	1 21
Pitch:			
Changing of	. 7		7
Covering of	. 11	11	1 9
Definition of	. 7		7
Regulations for drying .			29, 30
Rolling, mowing and			
watering of	. 10	10	1, 2, 3 8, 9
Selection and preparation			
of	. 7		7
Use and maintenance of	7,12		7, 9
35
Laws	Notes	Pages
Play: See also “INTERVALS” Calling “Play”	 17	17 1	10, 11
Continuing, after first in- nings in a onc-day match 22	22 2	14
Players: Captains ... ... ... 1	11; 22 1; 45 2 5	,14, 24
Composition of sides ... 1	1 2	5
Injured player resuming	2 1	5
Not to criticise the umpires	46 4 (ii)	25
Result: See “MATCHES” Retirement: See ** BATSMEN ’ Rolling: See “ PITCH ” Run Out: See “ OUT ” Runs: See “SCORING” Scorers: Consultation with umpires	4 1	6
Duties of ... ... ... 4	4 1	6
Notes for ... To accept umpires’ in- structions 	 4 Scoring: See also “ BOUNDARIES ” After hitting ball twice ... 37 Entries of special nature 36 2; 37 4; 40 2		28 6 21 21, 23
Disallowed runs ... ... 19	37 4 12,	13, 21
Overthrows ... ... 20 Penalties—See “BYES and LEG BYES,” “FIELDS- MEN,” “LOST BALL,” “NO BALL,” “WIDE” Runs 	 19 Short runs 	 19	19 2, 3, 4	13 12 12, 13
Stealing run before delivery of ball, prohibited	46 4(vii)	26
Scores to be checked ...	22 1	14
Short Runs: See “ SCORING ” Sides: See “ PLAYERS ” Signals: General ... ... ... 4	19 4; 20 7; 26 5	6
	28 2; 30 2; 46 3; 47 2 13 14	
36
Laws
Stumped: See “ OUT ”
Stumps:
General ... ... ... 8
Shape of top of ...
Struck or pulled up ... 31
Substitutes:
General rules ... ... 2
Teams: See “ PLAYERS ”
“Tie”: See “MATCH”
“ Time
Finishing “over” before 18
When to be called ... 18
Wicket falling within two
minutes of the com-
mencement of an interval
in play............... 18
Time Keeping: See “ UMPIRES ”
Tossing:
Choice not to be altered
For choice of innings ... 13
Players to be nominated
before ............... 1
Trial Balls: See “BOWLER”
Umpires:
Appointment or change of 3
Consultation between, per-
mitted ...............47
Criticism of, by players ...
Decisions of, may be
altered______________
Duties re:
Appeals ..............47
Calling and signalling,
See “ SIGNALS ”
Condition of ground,
weather and light ... 46
Conduct of game ... 46
Notes
Pages
17
18
25
27
7
8	1	7
31	3	18
2	1, 2	5
		11
		11
		11
13	1	10
13	1	10
		5
		6
47	4	27, 28
46	4(ii)	25
47	3	27
47	1	27
46	5	26, 27
24
37
Laws		Notes	Pages
Disputes	46		24
Boundaries	20	20 2, 3, 4	13
Fair and unfair play ...	46	46 4	25
Implements of the game	46	5 1	6, 24
Pitching of wickets ...	45		24
Scorers and scoring ...	4	4 1	6
Special conditions of			
play ... 		45	45 1	24
Time keeping ...	45	45 2	24
Use and maintenance of			
pitch		7		7
	10	10 1, 3	8, 5
	12		
Intervention by			46 4 (i); 47 5	25, 2
Jurisdiction of	47	47 1	2
Not to be influenced by			
players, etc.		46 2	25
Position of 			46 1	25
To be impartial ...	3	46 2	6, 25
To change ends ...	46		24
To notify decisions clearly		46 3	25
To report before start of			
matches 			3 1	6
Unfair play:			
Action by umpires	46	46 4	24, 25
Attempts to run before the			
ball is delivered		46 4 (vii)	26
Ball tampered with		46 4 (iii)	25
By fieldsmen		44 1, 2	24
Use of resin, etc., by bowler		46 4 (iii)	25
Unfair bowling			46 4 (vi)	26
Unfair practices			46 4 (iv) (v) (viii)	25,26
Watering: See “ PITCH ”			
Weather: See “ GROUND,”	etc.		
Wicket Keeper:			
Position, etc., behind the			
wicket 		43	43 1, 2	23, 24
Wickets:			
Definition of wicket is			
“ down ” 		31	31 1, 2 ,3	18, 19
38
Laws Notes Paces
Lay out and size of
Umpires need not remake
while ball is in play ...
Umpires to supervise pitch-
ing of ...
“ Wide
Ball not “dead”
Ball not reaching striker
Batsmen may be “ out ”
from
Calling and signalling ...
General rules ________
How scored ________
Not to reckon in “ over ”
8	31 4	7 19
45		24
29		18
	28 1	17, 18
29		18
28	28 2, 3	17, 18
28	28 1	17
29		18
23		15