THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
(1980 Code)
SECOND EDITION - 1992
OFFICIAL
Copyright MCC 1979
World Copyright Reserved
Copies may be obtained from:
Marylebone Cricket Club,
(MCC Book Shop),
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
London NW8 8QN.
THE
LAWS OF CRICKET
(1980 Code)
SECOND EDITION - 1992
OFFICIAL
Copyright MCC 1979
World Copyright Reserved
Copies may be obtained from:
Marylebone Cricket Club,
(MCC Book Shop),
Lord’s Cricket Ground,
London NW8 8QN.
2
PREFACE
The game of Cricket has been governed by a series of Codes of
Law for nearly two hundred and fifty years. These Codes were
introduced as indicated below, and were subject to additions and
alterations decided by the governing authorities of the time. Since
its formation in 1787 the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) has
been recognised as the sole authority for drawing up the Code and
all subsequent amendments.
There can be little doubt that Cricket was recognised as early as
1700, but the earliest known Code was drawn up by certain
Noblemen and Gentlemen who used the Artillery Ground in
London. These Laws were revised in 1755 by ‘Several Cricket
Clubs, particularly the Star and Garter in Pall Mall’. The next
arrangement was produced by ‘a Committee of Noblemen and
Gentlemen of Kent, Hampshire, Surrey, Sussex, Middlesex and
London’, at the Star and Garter on 25 February 1774. This in turn
was revised by a similar body in February 1786.
The first MCC Code was adopted on 30 May 1788 and
remained unchanged until 19 May 1835, when a new Code of
Laws was approved by the Committee. The 1835 Code, amended
from time to time, stood until 21 April 1884, when, after
consultation with Cricket Clubs world-wide, important
alterations were incorporated in a new version approved at a
Special General Meeting of MCC.
By 1939 the 1884 Code of Laws, having been supplemented by
the inclusion of many definitions and interpretations in the form
of notes, were in need of revision. Al the conclusion of the 1939-
1945 World War the opinions of controlling bodies and Clubs
throughout the world were sought resulting in a new Code being
approved at a Special General Meeting of MCC on 7 May 1947.
The main changes in the 1947 Code were aimed at clarification
and better arrangement of the Laws and their interpretations.
This did not however exclude certain definite alterations which
were designed to provide greater latitude in the conduct of the
game as required by the widely differing conditions in which
cricket was played.
During the following thirty years a number of changes were
required including the publication of five editions of the 1947
Code. During the International Cricket Conference of 1972,
3
MCC suggested the lime had come for the Code io be revised and
re-written. The aim was to remove certain anomalies, consolidate
various Amendments and Notes and to achieve greater clarity and
simplification. MCC undertook the task starting in 1974 with the
1980 Code of the Laws being approved at a Special General
Meeting of MCC on 21 November 1979. This second edition of the
1980 Code incorporates all the amendments which have been
approved during the last twelve years.
Many queries on the Laws, which apply equally to women’s
cricket as to men’s, are sent to MCC for decision every year. MCC
as the accepted makers of the Laws, which can only be changed by
the vote of two-thirds of the members present and voting at a
Special General Meeting of the Club, has always been prepared t
answer the queries and to give interpretations on certai
conditions which will be readily understood, ie:—
(a)	In the case of League or Competition Cricket, the enquiry
must come from the Committee responsible for organising the
league or competition. In other cases, enquiries should be
initiated by a representative officer of a Club, or of an
Umpires’ Association on behalf of his or her Committee, or by
a master or mistress in charge of school cricket.
(b)	The incident on which a ruling is required must not be merely
invented for disputation, but must have actually occurred in play.
(c)	The enquiry must not be connected in any way with a bet or
wager.
Since their inception over two centuries ago the Laws of Cricket
have stood the test remarkably well. On 1 October 1991 the
International Cricket Council (formerly Conference),
administered by MCC, implemented an agreed International
Code of Conduct. This Code emphasises the responsibility of
Captains under the Laws of Cricket to ensure their players
conduct themselves within the spirit as well as within the Laws of
the Game. The unique character and enjoyment of Cricket
depends on all players, at whatever level, continuing to preserve
this spirit.
Lord’s Cricket Ground J R STEPHENSON
London NW8 8QN Secretary MCC
1 January 1992
4
CONTENTS
/MA’C
Law 1 - The Players........5
Law 2 - Substitutes and Run-
ners: Batsman or Fieldsman
Leaving the Field: Batsman
Retiring: Batsman
Commencing Innings.........5
Law 3 - The Umpires........7
Law 4 - The Scorers........10
Law 5-The Ball.............10
Law 6-The Bat..............11
Law 7 - The Pilch..........12
Law 8 - The Wickets........12
Law 9 - The Bowling, Popping
and Return Creases.........13
Law 10 - Rolling, Sweeping,
Mowing, Watering the Pitch
and re-marking of Creases . 14
Law 11 - Covering the Pilch.. 16
Law 12 - Innings...........17
Law 13 - The Follow-on.....17
Law 14 - Declarations......18
Law 15 - Start of Play.....18
Law 16 - Intervals.........18
Law 17 - Cessation of Play ... 20
Law 18 - Scoring...........22
Law 19 - Boundaries........24
page
Law 20 - Lost Ball.......25
Law 21-The Result........25
Law 22 - The Over........27
Law 23-Dead Ball.........28
Law 24 - No Ball.........29
Law 25-Wide Ball.........31
Law 26 - Bye and Leg-Bye... 33
Law 27 - Appeals.........33
Law 28 - The Wickci
is Down..................34
Law 29 - Batsman out
of his Ground............35
Law 30 - Bowled..........36
Law 31 - Timed Out.......36
Law 32 - Caught..........37
Law 33 - Handled the Ball... 38
Law 34 - Hit the Ball Twice . . 38
Law 35 - Hu Wicket.......39
Law 36 - Leg Before Wicket. . 40
Law 37 - Obstructing
the Field................40
Law 38 - Run Out.........41
Law 39 - Slumped.........42
Law 40 - The Wicket-Keeper. 42
Law 41 - The Fieldsman...43
Law 42 - Unfair Play.....44
5
LAW 1 THE PLAYERS
1.	Number of Players and Captain
A match is played between two sides each of eleven Players, one
of whom shall be Captain. In the event of the Captain not being
available at any time a Deputy shall act for him.
2.	Nomination of Players
Before the toss for innings, the Captain shall nominate his
Players who may not thereafter be changed without the consent of
the opposing Captain.
NOTES
(a)	More or Less than Eleven Players a Side
A match may be played by agreement between sides of more or
less than eleven players but not more than eleven players may field.
LAW 2 SUBSTITUTES AND RUNNERS:
BATSMAN OR FIELDSMAN LEAVING THE FIELD:
BATSMAN RETIRING:
BATSMAN COMMENCING INNINGS
1.	Substitutes
In normal circumstances, a Substitute shall be allowed to field
only for a player who satisfies the Umpires that he has become
injured or become ill during the match. However, in very
exceptional circumstances, the Umpires may use their discretion
to allow a Substitute for a player who has to leave the field for
other wholly acceptable reasons, subject to consent being given by
the opposing Captain. If a player wishes to change his shirt, boots,
etc., he may leave the field to do so (no changing on the field) but
no Substitute will be allowed.
2.	Objection to Substitutes
The opposing Captain shall have no right of objection to any
player acting as Substitute on the field, nor as to where he shall
field; however, no Substitute shall act as Wicket-Keeper.
3.	Substitute Not to Bat or Bowl
A Substitute shall not be allowed to bat or bowl.
4.	A Player for whom a Substitute has acted
A player may bat, bowl or field even though a Substitute has
acted for him.
6
5.	Runner
A Runner shall be allowed for a Batsman who during the match
is incapacitated by illness or injury. The player acting as Runner
shall be a member of the batting side and shall, if possible, have
already batted in that innings.
6.	Runner’s Equipment
The player acting as Runner for an injured Batsman shall wear
the same external protective equipment as the injured Batsman.
7.	Transgression of the Laws by an Injured Batsman or
Runner
An injured Batsman may be out should his Runner break any
one of Laws 33. (Handled the BalT), 37. (Obstructing the Field) or
38. (Run Out). As Striker he remains himself subject to the Laws.
Furthermore, should he be out of his ground for any purpose and
the wicket at the Wicket-Keeper's end be put down he shall be out
under Law 38. (Run Out) or Law 39. (Stumped) irrespective of the
position of the other Batsman or the Runner and no runs shall be
scored.
When not the Striker, the injured Batsman is out of the game and
shall stand where he does not interfere with the play. Should he
bring himself into the game in any way then he shall suffer the
penalties that any transgression of the Laws demands.
8.	Fieldsman Leaving the Field
No Fieldsman shall leave the field or return during a session of
play without the consent of the Umpire at the Bowler’s end. The
Umpire’s consent is also necessary if a Substitute is required for a
Fieldsman, when his side returns to the field after an interval. If a
member of the fielding side leaves the field or fails to return after
an interval and is absent from the field for longer than 15 minutes,
he shall not be permitted to bowl after his return until he has been
on the field for at least that length of playing time for which he was
absent. This restriction shall not apply at the start of a new day’s
play.
9.	Batsman Leaving the Field or Retiring
A Batsman may leave the field or retire at any time owing to
illness, injury or other unavoidable cause, having previously
notified the Umpire at the Bowler’s end. He may resume his
7
innings at the fall of a wicket, which for the purposes of this Law
shall include the retirement of another Batsman.
If he leaves the field or retires for any other reason he may only
resume his innings with the consent of the opposing Captain.
When a Batsman has left the field or retired and is unable to
return owing to illness, injury or other unavoidable cause, his
innings is to be recorded as “retired, not out”. Otherwise it is to be
recorded as “retired, out”.
10.	Commencement of a Batsman’s Innings
A Batsman shall be considered to have commenced his
innings once he has stepped on to the field of play.
NOTES
(a) Substitutes and Runners
For the purpose of these Laws allowable illnesses or injuries are
those which occur at any time after the nomination by the
Captains of their teams.
LAW 3 THE UMPIRES
1.	Appointment
Before the toss for innings two Umpires shall be appointed, one
for each end, to control the game with absolute impartiality as
required by the Laws.
2.	Change of Umpire
No Umpire shall be changed during a match without the
consent of both Captains.
3.	Special Conditions
Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall agree with both
Captains on any special conditions affecting the conduct of the
match.
4.	The Wickets
The Umpires shall satisfy themselves before the start of the
match that the wickets are properly pitched.
5.	Clock or Watch
The Umpires shall agree between themselves and inform both
Captains before the start of the match on the watch or clock to be
followed during the match.
8
6.	Conduct and Implements
Before and during a match the Umpires shall ensure that the
conduct of the game and the implements used are strictly in
accordance with the Laws.
7.	Fair and Unfair Play
The Umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
8.	Fitness of Ground, Weather and Light
(a)	The Umpires shall be the sole judges of the fitness of the
ground, weather and light for play.
(i)	However, before deciding to suspend play or not to start
play or not to resume play after an interval or stoppage, the
Umpires shall establish whether both Captains (the
Batsmen at the wicket may deputise for their Captain) wish
to commence or to continue in the prevailing conditions; if
so, their wishes shall be met.
(ii)In addition, if during play, the Umpires decide that the
light is unfit, only the batting side shall have the option of
continuing play. After agreeing to continue to play in unfit
light conditions, the Captain of the batting side (or a
Batsman at the wicket) may appeal against the light to the
Umpires, who shall uphold the appeal only if, in their
opinion, the light has deteriorated since the agreement to
continue was made.
(b)	After any suspension of play, the Umpires, unaccompanied
by any of the Players or Officials shall, on their own initiative,
carry out an inspection immediately the conditions improve
and shall continue to inspect at intervals. Immediately the
Umpires decide that play is possible they shall call upon the
Players to resume the game.
9.	Exceptional Circumstances
In exceptional circumstances, other than those of weather,
ground or light, the Umpires may decide to suspend or abandon
play. Before making such a decision the Umpires shall establish, if
the circumstances allow, whether both Captains (the Batsmen at
the wicket may deputise for their Captain) wish to continue in the
prevailing conditions: if so their wishes shall be met.
10.	Position of Umpires
The Umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon
9
which lheir decision may be required.
Subject to this over-riding consideration the Umpire at the
Bowler’s end shall stand where he does not interfere with either
the Bowler’s run up or the Striker’s view.
The Umpire at the Striker’s end may elect to stand on the off
instead of the leg side of the pilch, provided he informs the
Captain of the fielding side and the Striker of his intention to do so.
11.	Umpires Changing Ends
The Umpires shall change ends after each side has had one
innings.
12.	Disputes
All disputes shall be determined by the Umpires and if they
disagree the actual slate of things shall continue.
13.	Signals
The following code of signals shall be used by Umpires who
will wait until a signal has been answered by a Scorer before
allowing the game to proceed.
Boundary - by waving the arm from side to side.
Boundary 6 - by raising both arms above the head.
Bye - by raising an open hand above the head.
Dead Ball - by crossing and re-crossing the wrists below the
waist.
Leg Bye - by touching a raised knee with the hand.
No Ball - by extending one arm horizontally.
Out - by raising the index finger above the head. If not
out the Umpire shall call “not out”.
Short Run - by bending the arm upwards and by touching the
nearer shoulder with the lips of the fingers.
Wide - by extending both arms horizontally.
14.	Correctness of Scores
The Umpires shall be responsible for satisfying themselves on
the correctness of the scores throughout and at the conclusion of
the match. See Law 21.6. (Correctness of Result).
NOTES
(a)	Attendance of Umpires
The Umpires should be present on the ground and report to the
Ground Executive or the equivalent at least 30 minutes before the
10
start of a day's play.
(b) Consultation Between Umpires and Scorers
Consultation between Umpires and Scorers over doubtful
points is essential.
(c)	Fitness of Ground
The Umpires shall consider the ground as unfit for play when it
is so wet or slippery as to deprive the Bowlers of a reasonable
foothold, the Fieldsmen, other than the deep-fielders, of the power
of free movement, or the Batsmen the ability toplay their strokes or
to run between the wickets. Play should not be suspended merely
because the grass and the ball are wet and slippery.
(d)	Fitness of Weather and Light
The Umpires should only suspend play when they consider that
the conditions are so bad that it is unreasonable or dangerous to
continue.
LAW 4 THE SCORERS
1.	Recording Runs
All runs scored shall be recorded by Scorers appointed for the
purpose. Where there are two Scorers they shall frequently check
to ensure that the score sheets agree.
2.	Acknowledging Signals
The Scorers shall accept and immediately acknowledge all
instructions and signals given to them by the Umpires.
LAW 5 THE BALL
1.	Weight and Size
The ball, when new, shall weight not less than 5‘/> ounces/
155.9g., nor more than 5’4 ounces/163g.: and shall measure not
less than 8.13/16 inches/22.4 cm., nor more than 9 inches/
22.9 cm. in circumference.
2.	Approval of Balls
All balls used in matches shall be approved by the Umpires and
Captains before the start of the match.
3.	New Ball
Subject to agreement to the contrary, having been made before
11
the toss, either Captain may demand a new ball at the start of each
innings.
4.	New Ball in Match of 3 or more Days Duration
In a match of 3 or more days duration, the Captain of the
fielding side may demand a new ball after the prescribed number
of overs has been bowled with the old one. The Governing Body
for cricket in the country concerned shall decide the number of
overs applicable in that country which shall be not less than 75 six-
ball overs (55 eight-ball overs).
5.	Ball Lost or Becoming Unfit for Play
In the event of a ball during play being lost or, in the opinion o
the Umpires, becoming unfit for play, the Umpires shall allow it tv
be replaced by one that in their opinion has had a similar amount
of wear. If a ball is to be replaced, the Umpires shall inform the
Batsmen.
NOTES
(a) Specifications
The specifications, as described in 1. above shall apply to
top-grade balls only. The following degrees of tolerance will be
acceptable for other grades of ball.
(i) Men’s Grades 2-4
Weight: 5.5/16 ounces/150g. to 5.13/16 ounces/165g.
Size: 8.11/16 inch.es/22.0cm. to 9.1/16 inches/23.Ocm.
(ii) Women's
Weight: 4.15/16 ounces/140g. to 5.5/16 ounces/150g.
Size: 8.1/4 inches/21.0cm to 8.7/8 inches/22 5cm.
(iii)Junior
Weight: 4.5/16 ounces/133g. to 5.1/16 ounces/143g.
Size: 8.1/16 inches/20.5cm. to 8.11/16 inches/22.0cm.
LAW 6 THE BAT
1.	Width and Length
The bat overall shall not be more than 38 inches/96.5 cm. in
length; the blade of the bat shall be made of wood and shall not
exceed 4’4 inches/10.8 cm. at the widest part.
NOTES
(a) The blade of the bat may be covered with material for
12
protection, strengthening or repair. Such material shall not exceed
1/16 inches/1.56 mm. in thickness.
LAW 7 THE PITCH
1.	Area of Pitch
The pitch is the area between the bowling creases — see Law 9.
(The Bowling, Popping and Return Creases). It shall measure 5
ft./1.52m. in width on either side of a line joining the centre of the
middle stumps of the wickets — see Law 8. (The Wickets).
2.	Selection and Preparation
Before the toss for innings, the Executive of the Ground shall
be responsible for the selection and preparation of the pitch;
thereafter the Umpires shall control its use and maintenance.
3.	Changing the Pitch
The pilch shall not be changed during a match unless it
becomes unfit for play, and then only with the consent of both
Captains.
4.	Non-Turf Pitches
In the event of a non-turf pilch being used, the following shall
apply:-
(a) LENGTH: That of the playing surface to a minimum of
58ft. (17.68 m.)
(b)	WIDTH: That of the playing surface to a minimum of
6ft. (1.83 m.)
See Law 10. (Rolling, Sweeping, Mowing, Watering the Pitch and
Re-marking of Creases) Note (a).
LAW 8 THE WICKETS
1.	Width and Pitching
Two sets of wickets, each 9 inches/22.86 cm. wide, and
consisting of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails upon
the top, shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other at a
distance of 22 yards/20.12m. between the centres of the two
middle slumps.
2.	Size of Stumps
The stumps shall be of equal and sufficient size to prevent the
ball from passing between them. Their tops shall be 28 inches/
13
71.1cm. above the ground, and shall be dome-shaped except for
the bail grooves.
3.	Size of Bails
The bails shall be each 4% inches/ 11.1cm. in length and when in
position on the top of the stumps shall not project more than
y2 inch/1.3cm. above them.
NOTES
(a)	Dispensing with Bails
In a high wind the Umpires may decide to dispense with the u.
of bails.
(b)Junior Cricket
For Junior Cricket, as defined by the local Governing Body, the
following measurements for the Wickets shall apply:-
Width - 8 inches/20.32 cm.
Pitched - 21 yards/19.20 m.
Height - 27 inches/68.58 cm.
Bails - each 3% inches/9.84 cm. in length and should not
project more than l/2 inch/1.3cm. above them.
LAW 9 THE BOWLING, POPPING AND
RETURN CREASES
1.	The Bowling Crease
The bowling crease shall be marked in line with the stumps at
each end and shall be 8 ft. 8 inches/2.64 m. in length, with the
stumps in the centre.
2.	The Popping Crease
The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease
marking, shall be in front of and parallel with the bowling crease.
It shall have the back edge of the crease marking 4 ft./1.22 m. from
the centre of the stumps and shall extend to a minimum of 6 ft./
1.83 m. on either side of the line of the wicket.
The popping crease shall be considered to be unlimited in length.
3.	The Return Crease
The return crease marking, of which the inside edge is the
crease, shall be at each end of the bowling crease and at right
angles to it. The return crease shall be marked to a minimum of
4 ft./1.22 m. behind the wicket and shall be considered to be
14
unlimited in length. A forward extension shall be marked to the
popping crease.
LAW 10 ROLLING, SWEEPING, MOWING,
WATERING THE PITCH AND
RE-MARKING OF CREASES
1.	Rolling
During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the
Captain of the batting side, for a period of not more than 7
minutes before the start of each innings, other than the first
innings of the match, and before the start of each day’s play. In
addition, if, after the toss and before the first innings of the match,
the start is delayed, the Captain of the batting side may request to
have the pitched rolled for not more than 7 minutes. However, if in
the opinion of the Umpires, the delay has had no significant effect
upon the state of the pitch, they shall refuse any request for the
rolling of the pitch.
The pitch shall not otherwise be rolled during the match.
The 7 minutes rolling permitted before the start of a day’s play
shall take place not earlier than half an hour before the start of
play and the Captain of the batting side may delay such rolling
until 10 minutes before the start of play should he so desire.
If a Captain declares an innings closed less than 15 minutes before
the resumption of play, and the other Captain is thereby
prevented from exercising his option of 7 minutes rolling or if he is
so prevented for any other reason the time for rolling shall be
taken out of the normal playing time.
2.	Sweeping
Such sweeping of the pitch as is necessary during the match
shall be done so that the 7 minutes allowed for rolling the pitch
provided for in 1. above is not affected.
3.	Mowing
(a) Responsibilities of Ground Authority and of Umpires
All mowings which are carried out before the toss for
innings shall be the responsibility of the Ground Authority.
Thereafter they shall be carried out under the supervision of
the Umpires, see Law 7.2 (Selection and Preparation).
15
(b) Initial Mowing
The pitch shall be mown before play begins on the day the
match is scheduled to start or in the case of a delayed start on
the day the match is expected to start. See 3(a) above.
(Responsibilities of Ground Authority and of Umpires).
(c)	Subsequent Mowings in a Match of 2 or More Days’
Duration
In a match of two or more days’ duration, the pitch shall be
mown daily before play begins. Should this mowing not take
place because of weather conditions, rest days or other reasons
the pitch shall be mown on the first day on which the match is
resumed.
(d)	Mowing of the Outfield in a Match of 2 or More Days:
Duration
In order to ensure that conditions are as similar as possible
for both sides, the outfield shall normally be mown before the
commencement of play on each day of the match, if ground
and weather conditions allow. See Note (b) to this Law.
4.	Watering
The pitch shall not be watered during a match.
5.	Re-Marking Creases
Whenever possible the creases shall be re-marked.
6.	Maintenance of Foot Holes
In wet weather, the Umpires shall ensure that the holes made
by the Bowlers and Batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever
necessary to facilitate play. In matches of 2 or more days’ duration,
the Umpires shall allow, if necessary, the re-turfing of foot holes
made by the Bowler in his delivery stride, or the use of quick-
setting fillings for the same purpose, before the start of each day’s
play.
7.	Securing of Footholds and Maintenance of Pitch
During play, the Umpires shall allow either Batsman to beat
the pitch with his bat and players to secure their footholds by the
use of sawdust, provided that no damage to the pitch is so caused,
and Law 42. (Unfair Play) is not contravened.
16
NOTES
(a)	Non-Turf Pitches
The above Lain 10 applies to turf pitches.
The game is played on non-turf pitches in many countries at
various levels. Whilst the conduct of the game on these stirfaces
should always be in accordance with the Laws of Cricket, it is
recognised that it may sometimes be necessary for Governing
Bodies to lay down special playing conditions to suit the type of
non-turf pitch used in their country.
In matches played against Touring Teams, any special playing
conditions should be agreed in advance by both parties.
(b) Mowing of the Outfield in a Match of 2 or More Days’
Duration
If, for reasons other than ground and weather conditions, daily
and complete mowing is not possible, the Ground Authority shall
notify the Captains and Umpires, before the tossfor innings, of the
procedure to be adopted for such mowing during the match.
(c)	Choice of Roller
If there is more than one roller available the Captain of the
batting side shall have a choice.
LAW 11 COVERING THE PITCH
1.	Before the Start of a Match
Before the start of a match complete covering of the pitch shall
be allowed.
2.	During a Match
The pitch shall not be completely covered during a match
unless prior arrangement or regulations so provide.
3.	Covering Bowlers’ Run-Up
Whenever possible, the Bowlers’ run-up shall be covered, but
the covers so used shall not extend further than 4 ft./1.22 m. in
front of the popping crease.
NOTES
(a) Removal of Covers
The covers should be removed as promptly as possible
whenever the weather permits.
17
LAW 12 INNINGS
1.	Number of Innings
A match shall be of one or two innings of each side according to
agreement reached before the start of play.
2.	Alternate Innings
In a two innings match each side shall take their innings alternately
except in the case provided for in Law 13. (The Follow-On).
3.	The Toss
The Captains shall toss for the choice of innings on the field of
play not later than 15 minutes before the time scheduled for the
match to start, or before the time agreed upon for play to start
4.	Choice of Innings
The winner of the toss shall notify his decision to bat or to field
to the opposing Captain not later than 10 minutes before the time
scheduled for the match to start, or before the lime agreed upon
for play to start. The decision shall not thereafter be altered.
5.	Continuation After One Innings of Each Side
Despite the terms of 1. above, in a one innings match, when a
result has been reached on the first innings the Captains may
agree to the continuation of play if, in their opinion, there is a
prospect of carrying the game to a further issue in the time left.
See Law 21 (Result).
NOTES
(a)	Limited Innings - One Innings Match
bi a one innings match, each innings may, by agreement, be
limited by a number of overs or by a period of time.
(b)	Limited Innings - Two Innings Match
In a two innings match, the first innings of each side may, by
agreement, be limited to a number of overs or by a period of time.
LAW 13 THE FOLLOW-ON
1. Lead on First Innings
In a two innings match the side which bats first and leads by
200 runs in a match of five days or more, by 150 runs in a three-
day or four-day match, by 100 runs in a two-day match, or by 75
runs in a one-day match, shall have the option of requiring the
other side to follow their innings.
18
2.	Day’s Play Lost
If no play takes place on the first day of a match of 2 or more
days’ duration, 1. above shall apply in accordance with the number
of days’ play remaining from the actual start of the match.
LAW 14 DECLARATIONS
1. Time of Declaration
The Captain of the batting side may declare an innings closed
at any time during a match irrespective of its duration.
2. Forfeiture of Second Innings
A Captain may forfeit his second innings, provided his decision
to do so is notified to the opposing Captain and Umpires in
sufficient time to allow 7 minutes rolling of the pitch. See Law 10.
(Rolling, Sweeping, Mowing, Watering the Pitch and Re-Marking
of Creases). The normal 10 minute interval between innings shall
be applied.
LAW 15 START OF PLAY
1.	Call of Play
At the start of each innings and of each day’s play and on the
resumption of play after any interval or interruption the Umpire
at the Bowlers’ end shall call “play”.
2. Practice on the Field
At no time on any day of the match shall there be any bowling
or batting practice on the pitch.
No practice may take place on the field if, in the opinion of the
Umpires, it could result in a waste of time.
3.	Trial Run-Up
No Bowler shall have a trial run-up after “play” has been called
in any session of play, except at the fall of a wicket when an Umpire
may allow such a trial run-up if he is satisfied that it will not cause
any waste of time.
LAW 16 INTERVALS
1.	Length
The Umpire shall allow such intervals as have been agreed
upon for meals, and 10 minutes between each innings.
19
2.	Luncheon Interval - Innings Ending or Stoppage within
10 Minutes of Interval
If an innings ends or there is a stoppage caused by weather or
bad light within 10 minutes of the agreed time for the luncheon
interval, the interval shall be taken immediately.
The time remaining in the session of play shall be added to the
agreed length of the interval but no extra allowance shall be made
for the 10 minutes interval between innings.
3.	Tea Interval - Innings Ending or Stoppage within
30 Minutes of Interval
If an innings ends or there is a stoppage caused by weather or
bad light within 30 minutes of the agreed time for the tea interval.
the interval shall be taken immediately.
The interval shall be of the agreed length and, if applicable, shall
include the 10 minute interval between innings.
4.	Tea Interval - Continuation of Play
If at the agreed time for the tea interval, nine wickets are down,
play shall continue for a period not exceeding 30 minutes or until
the innings is concluded.
5.	Tea Interval - Agreement to Forego
At any time during the match, the Captains may agree to
forego a tea interval.
6.	Intervals for Drinks
If both Captains agree before the start of a match that intervals
for drinks may be taken, the option to take such intervals shall be
available to either side. These intervals shall be restricted to one
per session, shall be kept as short as possible, shall not be taken in
the last hour of the match and in any case shall not exceed 5
minutes.
The agreed times for these intervals shall be strictly adhered to
except that if a wicket falls within 5 minutes of the agreed time
then drinks shall be taken out immediately.
If an innings ends or there is a stoppage caused by weather or bad
light within 30 minutes of the agreed time for a drinks interval,
there will be no interval for drinks in that session.
At any lime during the match the Captains may agree to forego
any such drinks interval.
20
NOTES
(a)	Tea Interval - One-Day Match
In a one-day match, a specific lime for the tea interval need not
necessarily be arranged, and it may be agreed to take this interval
between the innings of a one-innings match.
(b)	Changing the Agreed Time of Intervals
In the event of the ground, weather or light conditions causing
a suspension of play, the Umpires, after consultation with the
Captains, may decide in the interests of time-saving, to bring
forward the time of the luncheon or tea interval.
LAW 17 CESSATION OF PLAY
1.	Call of Time
The Umpire at the Bowler’s end shall call “time” on the
cessation of play before any interval or interruption of play, at the
end of each day’s play, and at the conclusion of the match. See Law
27. (Appeals).
2.	Removal of Bails
After the call of “time”, the Umpires shall remove the bails
from both wickets.
3.	Starting a Last Over
The last over before an interval or the close of play shall be
started provided the Umpire, after walking at his normal pace, has
arrived at his position behind the stumps at the Bowler’s end
before time has been reached.
4.	Completion of the Last Over of a Session
The last over before an interval or the close of play shall be
completed unless a Batsman is out or retires during that over
within 2 minutes of the interval or the close of play or unless the
Players have occasion to leave the field.
5.	Completion of the Last Over of a Match
An over in progress at the close of play on the final day of a
match shall be completed at the request of either Captain even if a
wicket falls after time has been reached.
If during the last over the Players have occasion to leave the field
the Umpires shall call “time” and there shall be no resumption of
play and the match shall be at an end.
21
6.	Last Hour of Match - Number of Overs
The Umpires shall indicate when one hour of playing time of
the match remains according to the agreed hours of play. The next
over after that moment shall be the first of a minimum of20 6 -ball
overs, (15 8-ball overs), provided a result is not reached earlier or
there is no interval or interruption of play.
7.	Last Hour of Match - Intervals Between Innings and
Interruptions of Play
If, at the commencement of the last hour of the match, ar
interval or interruption of play is in progress or if, during the las
hour there is an interval between innings or an interruption of plaj
the minimum number of overs to be bowled on the resumption o
play shall be reduced in proportion to the duration, within the Iasi
hour of the match, of any such interval or interruption.
The minimum number of overs to be bowled after a resumption of
play shall be calculated as follows:-
(a) In the case of an interval or interruption of play being in
progress at the commencement of the last hour of the match, or
in the case of a first interval or interruption a deduction shall be
made from the minimum of 20 6-ball overs (or 15 8-ball overs).
(b)	If there is a later interval or interruption a further deduction
shall be made from the minimum number of overs which should
have been bowled following the last resumption of play.
(c)	These deductions shall be based on the following factors:-
(i)	the number of overs already bowled in the last hour of
the match or, in the case of a later interval or interruption in
the last session of play.
(ii)	the number of overs lost as a result of the interval or
interruption allowing one 6-ball over for every full three
minutes (or one 8-ball over for every full four minutes) of
interval or interruption.
(iii)	any over left uncompleted at the end of an innings to be
excluded from these calculations.
(iv)	any over of the minimum number to be played which is
left uncompleted at the start of an interruption of play shall
be completed when play is resumed and to count as One over
bowled.
22
(v)	an interval to start with the end of an innings and to end
10 minutes later; an interruption to start on the call of
“time” and to end on the call of “play”.
(d)In the event of an innings being completed and a new
innings commencing during the last hour of the match, the
number of overs to be bowled in the new innings shall be
calculated on the basis of one 6-ball over for every three
minutes or part thereof remaining for play (or one 8-ball over
for every four minutes or part thereof remaining for play); or
alternatively on the basis that sufficient overs be bowled to
enable the full minimum quota of overs to be completed under
circumstances governed by (a), (b) and (c) above. In all such
cases the alternative which allows the greater number of overs
shall be employed.
8.	Bowler Unable to Complete an Over During Last Hour
of the Match
If, for any reason, a Bowler is unable to complete an over
during the period of play referred to in 6. above, Law 22.7. (Bowler
Incapacitated or Suspended during an Over) shall apply.
LAW 18 SCORING
1.	A Run
The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:-
(a)	So often as the Batsmen, after a hit or at any time while the
ball is in play, shall have crossed and made good their ground
from end to end.
(b)When a boundary is scored. See Law 19. (Boundaries).
(c)	When penalty runs are awarded. See 6. below.
2.	Short Runs
(a)	If either Batsman runs a short run, the Umpire shall call
and signal “one short” as soon as the ball becomes dead and
that run shall not be scored. A run is short if a Batsman fails to
make good his ground on turning for a further run.
(b) Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the
latter, if completed shall count.
(c)	If either or both Batsmen deliberately run short the Umpire
shall, as soon as he sees that the fielding side have no chance of
dismissing either Batsman, call and signal “dead ball” and
23
disallow any runs attempted or previously scored. The
Batsmen shall return to their original ends.
(d)	If both Batsmen run short in one and the same run, only one
run shall be deducted.
(e)	Only if three or more runs are attempted can more than one
be short and then, subject to (c) and (d) above, all runs so called
shall be disallowed. If there has been more than one short run
the Umpires shall instruct the Scorers as to the number of runs
disallowed.
3.	Striker Caught
If the Striker is Caught, no run shall be scored.
4.	Batsman Run Out
If a Batsman is Run Out, only that run which was being
attempted shall not be scored. If, however, an injured Striker
himself is run out no runs shall be scored. See Law 2.7.
(Transgression of the Laws by an Injured Batsman or Runner).
5.	Batsman Obstructing the Field
If a Batsman is out Obstructing the Field, any runs completed
before the obstruction occurs shall be scored unless such obstruction
prevents a catch being made in which case no runs shall be scored.
6.	Runs Scored for Penalties
Runs shall be scored for penalties under Laws 20. (Lost Ball),
24. (No Ball), 25. (Wide Ball), 41.1. (Fielding the Ball) and for
boundary allowances under Law 19. (Boundaries).
7.	Batsman Returning to Wicket he has Left
If, while the ball is in play, the Batsmen have crossed in
running, neither shall return to the wicket he has left even though
a short run has been called or no run has been scored as in the case
of a catch. Batsmen, however, shall return to the wickets they
originally left in the cases of a boundary and of any disallowance
of runs and of an injured Batsman being, himself, run out. See
Law 2.7. (Transgression of the Laws by an Injured Batsman or
Runner).
NOTES
(a)	Short Run
A Striker taking stance in front of his popping crease may run
from that point -without penalty.
24
LAW 19 BOUNDARIES
1.	The Boundary of the Playing Area
Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall agree with both
Captains on the boundary of the playing area. The boundary
shall, if possible, be marked by a white line, a rope laid on the
ground, or a fence. If flags or posts only are used to mark a
boundary, the imaginary line joining such points shall be regarded
as the boundary. An obstacle, or person, within the playing area
shall not be regarded as a boundary unless so decided by the
Umpires before the toss for innings. Sight-screens within, or
partially within, the playing area shall be regarded as the
boundary and when the ball strikes or passes within or under or
directly over any part of the screen, a boundary shall be scored.
2.	Runs Scored for Boundaries
Before the toss for innings, the Umpires shall agree with both
Captains the runs to be allowed for boundaries, and in deciding
the allowance for them, the Umpires and Captains shall be guided
by the prevailing custom of the ground. The allowance for a
boundary shall normally be 4 runs, and 6 runs for all hits pitching
over and clear of the boundary’ line or fence, even though the ball
has been previously touched by a Fieldsman. 6 runs shall also be
scored if a Fieldsman, after catching a ball, carries it over the
boundary. See Law 32. (Caught) Note (a). 6 runs shall not be
scored when a ball struck by the Striker hits a sightscreen full pitch
if the screen is within, or partially within, the playing area, but if
the ball is struck directly over a sightscreen so situated, 6 runs
shall be scored.
3.	A Boundary
A boundary shall be scored and signalled by the Umpire at the
Bowler’s end whenever, in his opinion:-
(a)A ball in play touches or crosses the boundary, however
marked.
(b)	A Fieldsman with ball in hand touches or grounds any part
of his person on or over a boundary line.
(c)	A Fieldsman with ball in hand grounds any part of his
person over a boundary fence or board. This allows the
Fieldsman to touch or lean on or over a boundary fence or
board in preventing a boundary.
25
4.	Runs Exceeding Boundary Allowance
The runs completed at the instant the ball reaches the
boundary shall count if they exceed the boundary allowance.
5.	Overthrows or Wilful Act of a Fieldsman
If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful
act of a Fieldsman, any runs already completed and the allowance
shall be added to the score. The run in progress shall count
provided that the Batsmen have crossed at the instant of the throw
or act.
NOTES
(a) Position of Sight-Screens
Sight-Screens should, if possible, be positioned wholly outside
the playing area, as near as possible to the boundary line.
LAW 20 LOST BALL
1. Runs Scored
If a ball in play cannot be found or recovered any fieldsman
may call “lost ball” when 6 runs shall be added to the score; but if
more than 6 have been run before “lost ball” is called, as many
runs as have been completed shall be scored. The run in progress
shall count provided that the Batsmen have crossed at the instant
of the call of “lost ball”.
2.	How Scored
The runs shall be added to the score of the Striker if the ball has
been struck, but otherwise to the score of byes, leg-byes, no-balls
or wides as the case may be.
LAW 21 THE RESULT
1.	A Win - Two Innings Matches
The side which has scored a total of runs in excess of that scored
by the opposing side in its two completed innings shall be the
winners.
2. A Win - One Innings Matches
(a) One innings matches, unless played out as in 1. above, shall
be decided on the first innings, but see Law 12.5. (Continuation
After One Innings of Each Side).
26
(b)	If the Captains agree to continue play after the completion
of one innings of each side in accordance with Law 12.5.
(Continuation After One Innings of Each Side) and a result is
not achieved on the second innings, the first innings result shall
stand.
3.	Umpires Awarding a Match
(a) A match shall be lost by a side which, during the match,
(i) refuses to play, or
(ii) concedes defeat,
and the Umpires shall award the match to the other side.
(b)Should both Batsmen at the wickets or the fielding side
leave the field at any time without the agreement of the
Umpires, this shall constitute a refusal to play and, on appeal,
the Umpires shall award the match to the other side in
accordance with (a) above.
4.	A Tie
The result of a match shall be a tie when the scores are equal at
the conclusion of play, but only if the side batting last has
completed its innings.
If the scores of the completed first innings of a one-day match are
equal, it shall be a tie but only if the match has not been played out
to a further conclusion.
5.	A Draw
A match not determined in any of the ways as in 1, 2, 3 and 4
above shall count as a draw.
6.	Correctness of Result
Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the
responsibility of the Umpires. See Law 3.14. (Correctness of
Scores).
If, after the Umpires and Players have left the field, in the belief
that the match has been concluded, the Umpires decide that a
mistake in scoring has occurred, which affects the result, and
provided time has not been reached, they shall order play to
resume and to continue until the agreed finishing time unless a
result is reached earlier.
If the Umpires decide that a mistake has occurred and time has
been reached, the Umpires shall immediately inform both
Captains of the necessary corrections to the scores and, if
27
applicable, to the result.
7.	Acceptance of Result
In accepting the scores as notified by the scorers and agreed by
the Umpires, the Captains of both sides thereby accept the result.
NOTES
(a) Statement of Results
The result of a finished match is stated as a win by runs, except
in the case of a win by the side batting last when it is by the number
of wickets still then to fall.
(b) Winning Hit or Extras
As soon as the side has won, see 1. and 2. above, the Umpire
shall call “time”, the match is finished, and nothing that happens
thereafter other than as a result of a mistake in scoring, see 6.
above, shall be regarded as part of the match.
However, if a boundary constitutes the winning hit — or extras —
and the boundary allowance exceeds the number of runs required
to win the match, such runs scored shall be credited to the side's
total and, in the case of a hit to the Striker's score.
LAW 22 THE OVER
1.	Number of Balls
The ball shall be bowled from each wicket alternately in overs
of either 6 or 8 balls according to agreement before the match.
2.	Call of “Over”
When the agreed number of balls has been bowled, and as the
ball becomes dead or when it becomes clear to the Umpire at the
Bowler’s end that both the fielding side and the Batsmen at the
wicket have ceased to regard the ball as in play, the Umpire shall
call “over” before leaving the wicket.
3.	No Ball or Wide Ball
Neither a no ball nor a wide ball shall be reckoned as one of the
over.
4.	Umpire Miscounting
If an Umpire miscounts the number of balls, the over as
counted by the Umpire shall stand.
5.	Bowler Changing Ends
A Bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired
28
provided only that he does not bowl two overs consecutively in an
innings.
6.	The Bowler Finishing an Over
A Bowler shall finish an over in progress unless he be
incapacitated or be suspended under Law 42.8. (The Bowling of
Fast Short Pitched Balls), 42.9. (The Bowling of Fast High Full
Pitches), 42.10. (Time Wasting) and 42.11. (Players Damaging the
Pitch). If an over is left incomplete for any reason at the start of an
interval or interruption of play, it shall be finished on the
resumption of play.
7.	Bowler Incapacitated or Suspended During an Over
If, for any reason, a Bowler is incapacitated while running up
to bowl the first ball of an over, or is incapacitated or suspended
during an over, the Umpire shall call and signal “dead ball” and
another Bowler shall be allowed to bowl or complete the over from
the same end, provided only that he shall not bowl two overs, or
part thereof, consecutively in one innings.
8.	Position of Non-Striker
The Batsman at the Bowler’s end shall normally stand on the
opposite side of the wicket to that from which the ball is being
delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by the
Umpire.
LAW 23 DEAD BALL
1.	The Ball Becomes Dead, when:-
(a) It is finally settled in the hands of the Wicket Keeper or the
Bowler.
(b) It reaches or pitches over the boundary.
(c)	A Batsman is out.
(d)Whether played or not, it lodges in the clothing or
equipment of a Batsman or the clothing of an Umpire.
(e)	A ball lodges in a protective helmet worn by a member of the
fielding side.
(f)	A penalty is awarded under Law 20. (Lost Ball) or Law 41.1.
(Fielding the Ball).
(g)The Umpire calls “over” or “time”.
2.	Either Umpire Shall Call and Signal “Dead Ball”, when:-
29
(a)	He intervenes in a case of unfair play.
(b)A serious injury to a Player or Umpire occurs.
(c)	He is satisfied that, for an adequate reason, the Striker is not
ready to receive the ball and makes no attempt to play it.
(d)The Bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery, or
the ball does not leave his hand for any reason, other than in an
attempt to run out the Non-Striker, (See Law 24.5 — Bowler
Attempting to Run Out Non-Striker Before Delivery).
(e)	One or both bails fall from the Striker’s wicket before he
receives delivery.
(f)	He leaves his normal position for consultation.
(g)	He is required to do so under Laws 263. (Disallowance of
Leg-Byes), etc.
3.	The Ball Ceases to be Dead, when:-
(a)The Bowler starts his run up or bowling action.
4.	The Ball is Not Dead, when:-
(a)	It strikes an Umpire (unless it lodges in his dress).
(b)The wicket is broken or struck down (unless a Batsman is
out thereby).
(c)	An unsuccessful appeal is made.
(d)The wicket is broken accidentally either by the Bowler
during his delivery or by a Batsman in running.
(e)The Umpire has called “no ball” or “wide”.
NOTES
(a) Ball Finally Settled
Whether the ball is finally settled or not — see 1 (a) above —
must be a question for the Umpires alone to decide.
(b) Action on Call of “Dead Ball”
(i) If "dead ball" is called prior to the Striker receiving a
delivery the Bowler shall be allowed an additional ball.
(ii) If "dead ball" is called after the Striker receives a delivery
the Bowler shall not be allowed an additional ball, unless a
"no-ball"or "wide" has been called.
LAW 24 NO BALL
1.	Mode of Delivery
The Umpire shall indicate to the Striker whether the Bowler
intends to bowl over or round the wicket, overarm or underarm, or
30
right or left-handed. Failure on the part of the Bowler to indicate
in advance a change in his mode of delivery is unfair and the
Umpire shall call and signal “no ball”.
2.	Fair Delivery - The Arm
For a delivery to be fair the ball must be bowled not thrown —
see Note (a) below. If either Umpire is not entirely satisfied with
the absolute fairness of a delivery in this respect he shall call and
signal “no ball” instantly upon delivery.
3.	Fair Delivery - The Feet
The Umpire at the bowler’s wicket shall call and signal “no
ball” if he is not satisfied that in the delivery stride:-
(a) the Bowler’s back foot has landed within and not touching
the return crease or its forward extension
or
(b)some part of the front foot whether grounded or raised was
behind the popping crease.
4.	Bowler Throwing at Striker’s Wicket Before Delivery
If the Bowler, before delivering the ball, throws it at the
Striker’s wicket in an attempt to run him out, the Umpire shall call
and signal “no ball”. See Law 42.12. (Batsman Unfairly Stealing a
Run) and Law 38. (Run Out).
5.	Bowler Attempting to Run Out Non-Striker Before
Delivery
If the Bowler, before delivering the ball, attempts to run out the
non-Striker, any runs which result shall be allowed and shall be
scored as no balls. Such an attempt shall not count as a ball in the
over. The Umpire shall not call “no ball”. See Law 42.12. (Batsman
Unfairly Stealing a Run).
6.	Infringement of Laws by a Wicket-Keeper or a
Fieldsman
The Umpire shall call and signal “no ball” in the event of the
Wicket-Keeper infringing Law 40.1. (Position of Wicket-Keeper)
or a Fieldsman infringing Law 41.2. (Limitation of On-Side
Fieldsmen) or Law 41.3. (Position of Fieldsmen).
7.	Revoking a Call
An Umpire shall revoke the call “no ball” if the ball does not
31
leave the Bowler’s hand for any reason. See Law 23.2. (Either
Umpire Shall Call and Signal “Dead Ball”).
8.	Penalty
A penally of one run for a no ball shall be scored if no runs are
made otherwise.
9.	Runs From a No Ball
The Striker may hit a no ball and whatever runs result shall
be added to his score. Runs made otherwise from a no ball shall b(
scored no balls.
10.	Out From a No Ball
The Striker shall be out from a no ball if he breaks Law 34.
(Hit the Ball Twice) and either Batsman may be Run Out or shall
be given out if either breaks Law 33. (Handled the Ball) or Law 37.
(Obstructing the Field).
11.	Batsman Given Out Off a No Ball
Should a Batsman be given out off a no ball the penalty for
bowling it shall stand unless runs a -e otherwise scored.
NOTES
(a) Definition of a Throw
A ball shall be deemed to have been thrown if, in the opinion of
either Umpire, the process of straightening the bowling arm,
whether it be partial or complex ’, takes place during that part of
the delivery swing which directly precedes the ball leaving the
hand. This definition shall not a ebar a Bowler from the use of the
wrist in the delivery swing.
(b)No Ball not Counting in Ov^r
A no ball shall not be reckonec as one of the over. See Law 22.3.
(No Ball or Wide Ball).
LAW 25 WIDE BALL
1.	Judging a Wide
If the Bowler bowls the ball so high over or so wide of the
wicket that, in the opinion of the 1 Jmpire it passes out of reach of
the Striker, standing in a normal g jard position, the Umpire shall
call and signal “wide ball” as soor as it has passed the line of the
Striker’s wicket.
The Umpire shall not adjudge a Lail as being a wide if:-
32
(a) The Striker, by moving from his guard position, causes the
ball to pass out of his reach.
(b)The Striker moves and thus brings the ball within his reach.
2.	Penalty
A penalty of one run for a wide shall be scored if no runs are
made otherwise.
3.	Ball Coming to Rest in Front of the Striker
If a ball which the Umpire considers to have been delivered
comes to rest in front of the line of the Striker’s wicket, “wide” shall
not be called. The Striker has a right, without interference from
the fielding side, to make one attempt to hit the ball. If the fielding
side interfere, the Umpire shall replace the ball where it came to
rest and shall order the Fieldsmen to resume the places they
occupied in the field before the ball was delivered.
The Umpire shall call and signal “dead ball” as soon as it is clear
hat the Striker does not intend to hit the ball, or after the Striker,
□as made one unsuccessful attempt to hit the ball.
4.	Revoking a Call
The Umpire shall revoke the call if the Striker hits a ball which
has been called “wide”.
5.	Ball Not Dead
The ball does not become dead on the call of “wide ball” — see
Law 23.4. (The Ball is Not Dead).
6.	Runs Resulting from a Wide
All runs which are run or result from a wide ball which is not a
no ball shall be scored wide balls, or if no runs are made one shall
be scored.
7.	Out from a Wide
The Striker shall be out from a wide ball if he breaks Law 35.
(Hit Wicket) or Law 39. (Stumped). Either Batsman may be Run
Out and shall be out if he breaks Law 33. (Handled the Ball) or
Law 37. (Obstructing the Field).
8.	Batsman Given Out Off a Wide
Should a Batsman be given out off a wide, the penalty for
bowling it shall stand unless runs are otherwise made.
NOTES
(a) Wide Ball not Counting in Over
33
A wide ball shall not be reckoned as one of the over — see Law
22.3. (No Ball or Wide Ball).
LAW 26 BYE AND LEG-BYE
1. Byes
If the ball, not having been called “wide” or “no ball” passes the
Striker without touching his bat or person, and any runs are
obtained, the Umpire shall signal “bye” and the run or runs shall
be credited as such to the batting side.
2.	Leg-Byes
If the ball, not having been called “wide” or “no ball” is
unintentionally deflected by the Striker’s dress or person, except a
hand holding the bat, and any runs are obtained the Umpire shall
signal “leg-bye” and the run or runs so scored shall be credited as
such to the batting side.
Such leg-byes shall only be scored if, in the opinion of the Umpire,
the Striker has:
(a) attempted to play the ball with his bat, or
(b)	tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
3.	Disallowance of Leg-Byes
In the case of a deflection by the Striker’s person, other than in
2(a) and (b) above, the Umpire shall call and signal “dead ball” as
soon as one run has been completed or when it is clear that a run is
not being attempted or the ball has reached the boundary.
On the call and signal of “dead ball” the Batsmen shall return to
their original ends and no runs shall be allowed.
LAW 27 APPEALS
1.	Time of Appeals
The Umpires shall not give a Batsman out unless appealed to
by the other side which shall be done prior to the Bowler beginning
his run-up or bowling action to deliver the next ball. Under Law
23.1 .(g) (The Ball Becomes Dead) the ball is dead on “over” being
called; this does not, however, invalidate an appeal made prior to
the first ball of the following over provided “time” has not been
called. See Law 17.1. (Call of Time).
2. An Appeal “How’s That?”
An appeal “How’s That?” shall cover all ways of being out.
34
3.	Answering Appeals
The Umpire at the Bowler’s wicket shall answer appeals before
the other Umpire in all cases except those arising out of Law 35.
(Hit Wicket) or Law 39. (Stumped) or Law 38. (Run Out) when this
occurs at the Striker’s wicket.
When either Umpire has given a Batsman not out, the other
Umpire shall, within his jurisdiction, answer the appeal or a
further appeal, provided it is made in time in accordance with 1.
above (Time of Appeals).
4.	Consultation by Umpires
An Umpire may consult with the other Umpire on a point of
fact which the latter may have been in a better position to see and
shall then give his decision. If, after consultation, there is still
doubt remaining the decision shall be in favour of the Batsman.
5.	Batsman Leaving his Wicket under a Misapprehension
The Umpires shall intervene if satisfied that a Batsman, not
having been given out, has left his wicket under a
misapprehension that he has been dismissed.
6.	Umpire’s Decision
The Umpire’s decision is final. He may alter his decision,
provided that such alteration is made promptly.
7.	Withdrawal of an Appeal
In exceptional circumstances the Captain of the fielding side
may seek permission of the Umpire to withdraw an appeal
providing the outgoing Batsman has not left the playing area. If
this is allowed, the Umpire shall cancel his decision.
LAW 28 THE WICKET IS DOWN
1.	Wicket Down
The wicket is down if:-
(a)	Either the ball or the Striker’s bat or person completely
removes either bail from the top of the stumps. A disturbance
of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not constitute a
complete removal, but the wicket is down if a bail in falling
lodges between two of the stumps.
35
fb) Any player completely removes with his hand or arm a bail
from the top of the slumps, providing that the bail is held in
that hand or in the hand of the arm so used.
(c)	When both bails are off, a stump is struck out of the ground
by the ball, or a player strikes or pulls a stump out of the
ground, providing that the ball is held in the hand(s) or in the
hand of the arm so used.
2.	One Bail Off
If one bail is off, it shall be sufficient for the purpose of pullin
the wicket down to remove the remaining bail, or to strike or pu
any of the three stumps out of the ground in any of the ways state
in 1. above.
3.	All the Stumps Out of the Ground
If all the slumps are out of the ground, the fielding side shall be
allowed to put back one or more slumps in order to have an
opportunity of putting the wicket down.
4.	Dispensing with Bails
If owing to the strength of the wind, it has been agreed to
dispense with the bails in accordance with Law 8. Note (a)
(Dispensing with Bails) the decision as to when the wicket is down
is one for the Umpires to decide on the facts before them. In such
circumstances and if the Umpires so decide the wicket shall be
held to be down even though a stump has not been struck out of the
ground.
NOTES
(a) Remaking the Wicket
If the wicket is broken while the ball is in play, it is not the
Umpire's duty to remake the wicket until the ball has become dead
— seeLaw23. (Dead Ball). A member of the fielding side, hozvever,
may remake the wicket in such circumstances.
LAW 29 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND
1.	When out of his Ground
A Batsman shall be considered to be out of his ground unless
some part of his bat in his hand or of his person is grounded behind
the line of the popping crease.
36
LAW 30 BOWLED
1. Out Bowled
The Striker shall be out bowled if:-
(a) His wicket is bowled down, even if the ball first touches his
bat or person.
(b)He breaks his wicket by hitting or kicking the ball on to it
before the completion of a stroke, or as a result of attempting to
guard his wicket. See Law 34.1. (Out - Hit the Ball Twice).
NOTES
(a) Out Bowled - Not L.B.W.
The Striker it out Bowled if the ball is deflected on to his wicket
even though a decision against him would be justified under Law
36 (Leg Before Wicket).
,AW 31 TIMED OUT
1.	Out Timed Out
An incoming Batsman shall be out Timed Out if he wilfully
takes more than two minutes to come in — the two minutes being
timed from the moment a wicket falls until the new batsman steps
on to the field of play.
If this is not complied with and if the Umpire is satisfied that the
delay was wilful and if an appeal is made, the new Batsman shall
be given out by the Umpire at the Bowler’s end.
2.	Time to be Added
The time taken by the Umpires to investigate the cause of the
delay shall be added at the normal close of play.
NOTES
(a) Entry in Score Book
The correct entry in the score book when a Batsman is given out
under this Law is "timed out ”, and the Bowler does not get credit
for the wicket.
(b) Batsmen Crossing on the Field of Play
It is an essential duty of the Captains to ensure that the in-going
Batsman passes the out-going one before the latter leaves the field
of play.
37
LAW 32 CAUGHT
1.	Out Caught
The Striker shall be out Caught if the ball touches his bat or if it
touches below the wrist his hand or glove, holding the bat, and is
subsequently held by a Fieldsman before it touches the ground.
2.	A Fair Catch
A catch shall be considered to have been fairly made if:-
(a)	The Fieldsman is within the field of play throughout the ac
of making the catch.
(i)	The act of making the catch shall start from the tim
when the Fieldsman first handles the ball and shall en
when he both retains complete control over the further
disposal of the ball and remains within the field of play.
(ii)	In order to be within the field of play, the Fieldsman
may not touch or ground any part of his person on or over a
boundary line. When the boundary is marked by a fence or
board the Fieldsman may not ground any part of his person
over the boundary fence or board, but may touch or lean
over the boundary fence or board in completing the catch.
(b) The ball is hugged to the body of the catcher or accidentally
lodges in his dress or, in the case of the Wicket-Keeper, in his
pads. However, a Striker may not be caught if a ball lodges in a
protective helmet worn by a Fieldsman, in which case the
Umpire shall call and signal “dead ball”. See Law 23. (Dead
Ball).
(c)	The ball does not touch the ground even though a hand
holding it does so in effecting the catch.
(d)A Fieldsman catches the ball, after it has been lawfully
played a second time by the Striker, but only if the ball has not
touched the ground since being first struck.
(e)A Fieldsman catches the ball after it has touched an
Umpire, another Fieldsman or the other Batsman. However a
Striker may not be caught if a ball has touched a protective
helmet worn by a Fieldsman.
(f)	The ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary
provided it has not previously been agreed to regard the
obstruction as a boundary.
38
3.	Scoring of Runs
If a Striker is caught, no runs shall be scored.
NOTES
(a) Scoring from an Attempted Catch
When a Fieldsman carrying the ball touches or grounds any
part of his person on or over a boundary marked by a line, 6 runs
shall be scored.
(b)Ball Still in Play
If a Fieldsman releases the ball before he crosses the boundary,
the ball will be considered to be still in play and it may be caught by
another Fieldsman. However, if the original Fieldsman returns to
the field of play and handles the ball, a catch may not be made.
.AW 33 HANDLED THE BALL
I.	Out Handled the Ball
Either Batsman on appeal shall be out Handled the Ball if he
wilfully touches the ball while in play with the hand not holding
the bat unless he does so with the consent of the opposite side.
NOTES
(a) Entry in Score Book
The correct entry in the score book when a Batsman is given out
under this Law is “handled the ball”, and the Bowler does not get
credit for the wicket.
LAW 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
1. Out Hit the Ball Twice
The Striker, on appeal, shall be out Hit the Ball Twice if, after
the ball is struck or is stopped by any part of his person, he wilfully
strikes it again with his bat or person except for the sole purpose of
guarding his wicket: this he may do with his bat or any part of his
person other than his hands, but see Law 37.2. (Obstructing a Ball
From Being Caught).
For the purpose of this Law, a hand holding the bat shall be
regarded as part of the bat.
2. Returning the Ball to a Fieldsman
The Striker, on appeal, shall be out under this Law, if, without
the consent of the opposite side, he uses his bat or person to return
39
the ball to any of the fielding side.
3.	Runs from Ball Lawfully Struck Twice
No runs except those which result from an overthrow or
penalty, see Law 41. (The Fieldsman), shall be scored from a ball
lawfully struck twice.
NOTES
(a) Entry in Score Book
The correct entry in the score book when the Striker is given out
under this Law is “hit the ball twice ”, and the Bowler does notge
credit for the wicket.
(b)Runs Credited to the Batsman
Any runs awarded under 3. above as a result of an overthrow or
penalty shall be credited to the Striker, provided the ball in thefirst
instance has touched the bat, or, if otherwise as extras.
LAW 35 HIT WICKET
1. Out Hit Wicket
The Striker shall be out Hit Wicket if, while the ball is in play:-
(a) His wicket is broken with any part of his person, dress, or
equipment as a result of any action taken by him in preparing
to receive or in receiving a delivery, or in setting off for his first
run, immediately after playing, or playing at, the ball.
(b)He hits down his wicket whilst lawfully making a second
stroke for the purpose of guarding his wicket within the
provisions of Law 34.1. (Out Hit the Ball Twice).
NOTES
(a) Not Out Hit Wicket
A Batsman is not out under this Law should his wicket be
broken in any of the ways referred to in 1(a) above if:-
(i) It occurs while he is in the act of running, other than in
setting off for hisfirst run immediately after playing at the ball,
or while he is avoiding being run out or stumped.
(ii) The Bowler after starting his run-up or bowling action
does not deliver the ball; in which case the Umpire shall
immediately call and signal “dead ball”.
(iii)It occurs whilst he is avoiding a throw-in at any time.
40
LAW 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
1. Out L.B.W.
The Striker shall be out L.B.W. in the circumstances set out
below:-
(a) Striker Attempting to Play the Ball
The Striker shall be out L.B.W. if he first intercepts with any
part of his person, dress or equipment a fair ball which would
have hit the wicket and which has not previously touched his
bat or a hand holding the bat, provided that:-
(i) The ball pitched, in a straight line between wicket and
wicket or on the off side of the Striker’s wicket, or was
intercepted full pitch.
and
(ii) the point of impact is in a straight line between wicket
and wicket, even if above the level of the bails.
(b)Striker Making No Attempt to Play the Ball
The Striker shall be out L.B.W. even if the ball is intercepted
outside the line of the off-stump, if, in the opinion of the
Umpire, he has made no genuine attempt to play the ball with
his bat, but has intercepted the ball with some part of his
person and if the other circumstances set out in (a) above apply.
LAW 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
1. Wilful Obstruction
Either Batsman, on appeal, shall be out Obstructing the Field if
he wilfully obstructs the opposite side by word or action.
2.	Obstructing a Ball from Being Caught
The Striker, on appeal, shall be out should wilful obstruction
by either Batsman prevent a catch being made.
This shall apply even though the Striker causes the obstruction in
lawfully guarding his wicket under the provisions of Law 34. See
Law 34.1. (Out Hit the Ball Twice).
NOTES
(a) Accidental Obstruction
The Umpires must decide whether the obstruction was wilful
or not. The accidental interception of a throw-in by a Batsman
while running does not break this Law.
41
(b)	Entry in Score Book
The correct entry in thescore book when a Batsman is given out
under this Law is “obstructing the field”, and the bowler does not
get credit for the wicket.
LAW 38 RUN OUT
1. Out Run Out
Either Batsman shall be out Run Out if in running or at any
lime while the ball is in play — except in the circumstances
described in Law 39. (Slumped) — he is out of his ground and his
wicket is pul down by the opposite side. If, however, a Batsman in
running makes good his ground he shall not be out Run Out, if h
subsequently leaves his ground, in order to avoid injury, and th
wicket is put down.
2.	“No Ball” Called
If a no ball has been called, the Striker shall not be given Run
Out unless he attempts to run.
3.	Which Batsman is Out
If the Batsmen have crossed in running, he who runs for the
wicket which is put down shall be out; if they have not crossed, he
who has left the wicket which is put down shall be out. If a
Batsman remains in his ground or returns to his ground and the
other Batsman joins him there, the latter shall be out if his wicket
is pul down.
4.	Scoring of Runs
If a Batsman is run out, only that run which is being attempted
shall not be scored. If however an injured Striker himself is run
out, no runs shall be scored. See Law 2.7. (Transgression of the
Laws by an Injured Batsman or Runner).
NOTES
(a)	Ball Played on to Opposite Wicket
If the ball is played on to the opposite wicket neither Batsman is
liable to be Run Out unless the ball has been touched by a
Fieldsman before the wicket is broken.
(b) Entry in Score Book
The correct entry in thescore book when the Striker is given out
under this Law is “run out ”, and the Bowler does riot get credit for
the wicket.
42
(c)	Run Out off a Fieldsman’s Helmet
If, having been played by a Batsman, or having come off his
person, the ball rebounds directly from a Fieldsman’s helmet on to
the stumps, with either Batsman out of his ground, the Batsman
shall be "Not Out
LAW 39 STUMPED
1. Out Stumped
The Striker shall be out Stumped if, in receiving the ball, not
being a no-ball, he is out of his ground otherwise than in
attempting a run and the wicket is put down by the Wicket-Keeper
without the intervention of another Fieldsman.
2.	Action by the Wicket-Keeper
The Wicket-Keeper may take the ball in front of the wicket in
an attempt to Stump the Striker only if the ball has touched the bat
or person of the Striker.
NOTES
(a)	Ball Rebounding from Wicket-Keeper’s Person
The Striker may be out Slumped if in the circumstances staled
in 1. above, the wicket is broken by a ball rebounding from the
Wicket-Keeper’s person or equipment other than a protective
helmet or is kicked or thrown by the Wicket-Keeper on to the
wicket.
LAW 40 THE WICKET-KEEPER
1. Position of Wicket-Keeper
The Wicket-Keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket
until a ball delivered by the Bowler touches the bat or person of the
Striker, or passes the wicket, or until the Striker attempts a run.
In the event of the Wicket-Keeper contravening this Law, the
Umpire at the Striker’s end shall call and signal “no ball” at the
instant of delivery or as soon as possible thereafter.
2. Restriction on Actions of the Wicket-Keeper
If the Wicket-Keeper interferes with the Striker’s right to play
the ball and to guard his wicket, the Striker shall not be out, except
under Laws 33. (Handled the Ball), 34. (Hit the Ball Twice), 37.
(Obstructing the Field) and 38. (Run Out).
43
3.	Interference with the Wicket-Keeper by the Striker
If in the legitimate defence of his wicket, the Striker interferes
with the Wicket-Keeper, he shall not be out, except as provided for
in Law 37.2. (Obstructing a Ball from Being Caught).
LAW 41 THE FIELDSMAN
1. Fielding the Ball
The Fieldsman may stop the ball with any part of his person,
but if he wilfully stops it otherwise, 5 runs shall be added to the run
or runs already scored; if no run has been scored 5 penalty runs
shall be awarded. The run in progress shall count provided that
the Batsmen have crossed at the instant of the act. If the ball has
been struck, the penalty shall be added to the score of the Striker
but otherwise to the score of byes, leg-byes, no balls or wides as tl
case may be.
2. Limitation of On-Side Fieldsmen
The number of on-side Fieldsmen behind the popping creA
at the instant of the Bowler’s delivery shall not exceed two. In th
event of infringement by the fielding side the Umpire at the
Striker’s end shall call and signal “no ball” at the instant of
delivery or as soon as possible thereafter.
3.	Position of Fieldsmen
Whilst the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact
with the bat or the Striker’s person or has passed his bat, no
Fieldsman, other than the Bowler, may stand on or have any part
of his person extended over, the pitch (measuring 22 yards/
20.12 m.* 10 ft ./3.05 m.). In the event of a Fieldsman contravening
this Law, the Umpire at the bowler’s end shall call and signal “no
ball” at the instant of delivery or as soon as possible thereafter. See
Law 40.1. (Position of Wicket-Keeper).
4.	Fieldsman’s Protective Helmets
Protective helmets, when not in use by members of the fielding
side, shall only be placed, if above the surface, on the ground
behind the Wicket-Keeper. In the event of the ball, when in play,
striking a helmet whilst in this position, five penalty runs shall be
awarded, as laid down in Law 41.1. and Note (a).
44
NOTES
(a)	Batsmen Changing Ends
The 5 runs referred to in 1. above are a penalty and the Batsmen
do not change ends solely by reason of this penalty.
LAW 42 UNFAIR PLAY
1. Responsibility of Captains
The Captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play
is conducted within the spirit of the game as well as within the
Laws.
2. Responsibility of Umpires
The Umpires are the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
3.	Intervention by the Umpire
The Umpires shall intervene without appeal by calling and
gnalling “dead ball” in the case of unfair play, but should not
herwise interfere with the progress of the game except as
:quired to do so by the Laws.
I. Lifting the Seam
A Player shall not lift the seam of the ball for any reason.
Should this be done, the Umpires shall change the ball for one of
similar condition to that in use prior to the contravention. See
Note (a).
5.	Changing the Condition of the Ball
Any member of the fielding side may polish the ball provided
that such polishing wastes no time and that no artificial substance
is used. No-one shall rub the ball on the ground or use any
artificial substance or take any other action to alter the condition
of the ball.
In the event of a contravention of this Law, the Umpires, after
consultation, shall change the ball for one of similar condition to
that in use prior to the contravention.
This Law does not prevent a member of the fielding side from
drying a wet ball, or removing mud from the ball. See Note (b).
6.	Incommoding the Striker
An Umpire is justified in intervening under this Law and shall
call and signal “dead ball” if, in his opinion, any Player of the
fielding side incommodes the Striker by any noise or action while
he is receiving a ball.
45
7.	Obstruction of a Batsman in Running
It shall be considered unfair if any Fieldsman wilfully
obstructs a Batsman in running. In these circumstances the
Umpire shall call and signal “dead ball” and allow any completed
runs and the run in progress or alternatively any boundary scored.
8.	The Bowling of Fast Short Pitched Balls
The bowling of fast short pitched balls is unfair if, in the
opinion of the Umpire at the Bowler’s end, it constitutes an
attempt to intimidate the Striker. See Note (d).
Umpires shall consider intimidation to be the deliberate bowling
of fast short pitched balls which by their length, height and
direction are intended or likely to inflict physical injury on the
Striker. The relative skill of the Striker shall also be taken inu
consideration.
In the event of such unfair bowling, the Umpire at the Bowlei
end shall adopt the following procedure:-
(a)In the first instance the Umpire shall call and signal “n
ball”, caution the Bowler and inform the other Umpire, the
Captain of the fielding side and the Batsmen of what has
occurred.
(b)If this caution is ineffective, he shall repeat the above
procedure and indicate to the Bowler that this is a final
warning.
(c)	Both the above caution and final warning shall continue to
apply even though the Bowler may later change ends.
(d)	Should the above warnings prove ineffective the Umpire at
the Bowler’s end shall:-
(i)	At the first repetition call and signal “no ball” and when
the ball is dead direct the Captain to take the Bowler off
forthwith and to complete the over with another Bowler,
provided that the Bowler does not bowl two overs or part
thereof consecutively. See Law 22.7. (Bowler Incapacitated
or Suspended during an Over).
(ii)	Not allow the Bowler, thus taken off, to bowl again in
the same innings.
(iii)	Report the occurrence to the Captain of the batting side
as soon as the Players leave the field for an interval.
(iv)	Report the occurrence to the Executive of the fielding
46
side and to any governing body responsible for the match
who shall take any further action which is considered to be
appropriate against the Bowler concerned.
9.	The Bowling of Fast High Full Pitches
The bowling of fast high full pitches is unfair. See Note (e).
In the event of such unfair bowling the Umpire at the bowler’s end
shall adopt the procedures of caution, final warning, action
against the Bowler and reporting as set out in 8. above.
10.	Time Wasting
Any form of time wasting is unfair.
(a) In the event of the Captain of the fielding side wasting time
or allowing any member of his side to waste time, the Umpire
at the Bowler’s end shall adopt the following procedure:-
(i)	In the first instance he shall caution the Captain of the
fielding side and inform the other Umpire of what has
occurred.
(ii)	If this caution is ineffective he shall repeat the above
procedure and indicate to the Captain that this is a final
warning.
(iii)The Umpire shall report the occurrence to the Captain
of the batting side as soon as the Players leave the field for
an interval.
(iv)	Should the above procedure prove ineffective the
Umpire shall report the occurrence to the Executive of the
fielding side and to any governing body responsible for that
match who shall take appropriate action against the
Captain and the Players concerned.
(b)	In the event of a Bowler taking unnecessarily long to bowl
an over the Umpire at the Bowler’s end shall adopt the
procedures, other than the calling of “no-ball”, of caution,
final warning, action against the Bowler and reporting as set
out in 8 above.
(c)	In the event of a Batsman wasting time (See Note (f)) other
than in the manner described in Law 31. (Timed Out), the
Umpire at the Bowler’s end shall adopt the following
procedure:-
(i)	In the first instance he shall caution the Batsman and
inform the other Umpire at once, and the Captain of the
47
bailing side, as soon as lhe Players leave lhe field for an
interval, of what has occurred.
(ii)	If this proves ineffective, he shall repeat the caution,
indicate to the Batsman that this is a final warning and
inform the other Umpire.
(iii)The Umpire shall report the occurrence to both
Captains as soon as lhe Players leave the field for an
interval.
(iv)	Should the above procedure prove ineffective, the
Umpire shall report lhe occurrence to the Executive of the
batting side and to any governing body responsible for that
match who shall take appropriate action against the Player
concerned.
11.	Players Damaging the Pitch
The Umpires shall intervene and prevent Players froi
causing damage to the pitch which may assist the Bowlers of eithe
side. See Note (c).
(a) In the event of any member of the fielding side damaging
lhe pitch lhe Umpire shall follow the procedure of caution,
final warning and reporting as set out in 10(a) above.
(b)	In the event of a Bowler contravening this Law by running
down lhe pitch after delivering the ball, the Umpire at the
Bowler’s end shall first caution the Bowler. If this caution is
ineffective lhe Umpire shall adopt the procedures, other than
the calling of “no-ball”, of final warning, action against lhe
Bowler and reporting as set out in 8. above.
(c)	In the event of a Batsman damaging lhe pitch the Umpire
at the Bowler’s end shall follow the procedures of caution,
final warning and reporting as set out in 10(c) above.
12.	Batsman Unfairly Stealing a Run
Any attempt by the Batsman to steal a run during lhe Bowler’s
run-up is unfair. Unless lhe Bowler attempts to run out either
Batsman — see Law 24.4. (Bowler Throwing at Striker’s Wicket
Before Delivery) and Law 24.5. (Bowler Attempting to Run Out
Non-Striker Before Delivery) — the Umpire shall call and signal
“dead ball” as soon as the Batsmen cross in any such attempt to
run. The Batsmen shall then return to their original wickets.
48
13.	Players’ Conduct
In the event of a player failing to comply with the instructions
of an Umpire, criticising his decisions by word or action, or
showing dissent, or generally behaving in a manner which might
bring the game into disrepute, the Umpire concerned shall, in the
first place report the matter to the other Umpire and to the
Player’s Captain requesting the latter to take action. If this proves
ineffective, the Umpire shall report the incident as soon as possible
to the Executive of the Player’s team and to any Governing Body
responsible for the match, who shall take any further action which
is considered appropriate against the Player or Players concerned.
NOTES
(a) The Condition of the Ball
Umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the
condition of the ball.
(b) Drying of a Wet Ball
A wet ball may be dried on a towel or with sawdust.
(c)	Danger Area
The danger area on the pitch, which must be protected from
damage by a Bowler, shall be regarded by the Umpires as the area
contained by an imaginary line 4 ft./1.22 m. from the popping
crease, and parallel to it, and within two imaginary and parallel
lines drawn down the pitch from points on that line 1 ft./30.48 cm.
on either side of the middle stump.
(d)Fast Short Pitched Balls
As a guide, a fast short pitched ball is one which pitches short
and passes, or would have passed, above the shoulder height of the
Striker standing in a normal batting stance at the crease.
(e)	The Bowling of Fast Full Pitches
The bowling of one fast, high full pitch shall be considered to
be unfair if in the opinion of the Umpire, it is deliberate, bowled
at the Striker, and if it passes or would have passed above the
shoulder height of the Striker when standing in a normal batting
stance at the crease.
(f)	Time Wasting by Batsmen
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the Batsman should
always be ready to take strike when the Bowler is ready to start his
run-up.
49
INDEX TO THE LAWS OF CRICKET
Law Page
Appeals:
Answering.................................. 27 34
Batsman leaving wicket under misapprehension.... 27 34
Consultation by Umpires..................... 27 34
“How’s That?”.............................. 27 33
Time of.................................... 27 33
Umpire’s decision............................ 27 34
Withdrawal of.............................. 27 34
Bails:........................................ 8 12
Dispensing with............................. 8 13
28 35
Size........................................ 8 13
Ball, the:
Approval of................................. 5 10
Becoming unfit for play...................... 5 11
Changing condition of........................ 42 44,48
........................................
........................................
........................................
Drying...................................... 42 44,48
Lost........................................ 5 11
20 25
New......................................... 5 10,11
Polishing................................... 42 44
Size........................................ 5 10
Specifications................................ 5 10,11
Weight...................................... 5 10
Bat, the:
Blade and covering........................... 6 11-12
......................................
Length...................................... 6 11
Width....................................... 6 11
Batsman:
Commencement of innings.................... 2 7
Leaving the field.............................. 2 6-7
Out of his ground............................ 29 35
Retiring..................................... 2 6-7
50
Law Page
Boundaries:
Boundary of playing area....................... 19 24
Overthrows................................... 19 25
Runs exceeding boundary allowance............. 19 25
Runs scored.................................. 19 24
Umpire’s signal................................ 3 9
When scored.................................. 19 24
Wilful act of Fieldsman......................... 19 25
Bowled........................................ 30 36
Bowling Crease............................... 9 13
Byes:......................................... 26 33
Umpire’s signal................................ 3 9
Captains:..................................... 1 5
Responsibility of............................... 42 44
Caught:...................................... 32 37-38
Ball still in play................................ 32 38
Fair catch.................................... 32 37
No runs scored................................ 18 23
32 38
Scoring from attempted catch................... 32 38
Cessation of Play:
Call of time and removal of bails................. 17 20
Last hour of match............................ 17 21-22
....................................
Last over..................................... 17 20
Covering the Pitch:
Before start.................................. 11 16
Bowler’s run-up............................... 11 16
During match................................. 11 16
Removal of covers............................... 11 16
Creases:
Bowling...................................... 9 13
Popping...................................... 9 13
Re-marking.................................. 10 15
Return....................................... 9 13
51
Dead Ball: Action on call			Law 	 23	Page 29
Call and signal			 3	9
	23	28-29
Finally settled			 23	29
When dead			 23	28
When not dead	 Declarations:		 23	29
Forfeiture of second innings			 14	18
Time of				 14	1
Drawn Match			 21	j
Drinks Intervals			 16	
Drying the Ball			 42	44,41
Fair and Unfair Play			 3	8
Fair Delivery:	42	44-48
The arms			 24	30,31
The feet	 Fieldsman:		 24	30
Fielding the ball			 41	43
Infringement of Laws by			 24	30
Leaving the field			 2	6
Limitation of on-side Fieldsmen			 41	43
Protective Helmets			 41	43
Position of			 41	43
Follow-On, the			 13	17-18
Footholds, Securing of			 10	15
Foot-Holes, Maintenance of			 10	15
Full Pitches, Fast high			 42	46,48
Ground, Fitness of			 3	8,10
Handled the Ball			 33	38
Entry in score book			 33	38
High Full Pitches, fast				 42	46,48
52
Law Page
Hit the Ball Twice............................. 34 38,39
Entry in score book............................ 34 39
Returning ball to Fieldsman.................... 34 38-39
....................................
Runs from ball lawfully struck twice.............. 34 39
Hit Wicket..................................... 35 39
Not out hit wicket............................. 35 39
Innings:
Alternate.................................... 12
Choice of.................................... 12 17
Commencement of Batsman’s................... 2 7
Limited..................................... 12 17
Number..................................... 12 17
Intervals:
Changing agreed time......................... 16 20
Drinks...................................... 16 19
Length...................................... 16 18
Luncheon.................................... 16 19
Tea.......................................... 16 19
Junior Cricket:
Measurement of wickets........................ 8 13
Weight of ball................................. 5 11
Last Hour of Match:
Bowler unable to complete over.................. 17 22
Interruptions of play.......................... 17 21-22
...............................
Intervals between innings....................... 17 21-22
Number of overs.............................. 17 21
Last Over:
Completion of last over of match................. 17 20
Completion oflast over of session................ 17 20
Starting last over............................. 17 20
Leg Before Wicket............................ 36 40
Striker attempting to play ball.................. 36 40
Striker not attempting to play ball................ 36 40
53
Law Page
Leg-Byes..................................... 26 33
Disallowance of.............................. 26 33
Umpire’s signal............................... 3 9
Light, fitness of............................... 3 8,10
Lost Ball..................................... 5 11
20 25
Luncheon Interval, Innings ending or stoppage
within 10 minutes of........................... 16 1
Mowing the Pitch............................. 10 14-1
Initial and subsequent........................ 10 11
of outfield................................... 10 15,16
No Ball:
Batsman out from no ball...................... 24 31
Bowler attempting to run out non-striker before
delivery...................................... 24 30
Bowler throwing at striker’s wicket before delivery .. 24 30
Fair delivery.................................. 24 30,31
...................................
Infringement of Laws by Wicket-Keeper or
Fieldsman..................................... 24 30
Mode of delivery.............................. 24 29-30
Not counting in over........................... 22 27
24 31
Penalty....................................... 24 31
Revoking a call................................ 24 30-31
Runs from no ball.............................. 24 31
Throw, definition of........................... 24 31
Umpire’s signal................................ 3 9
Non-Striker, position of......................... 22 28
Non-Turf Pitches.............................. 7 12
10 16
Not Out, Umpire’s call.......................... 3 9
54
Law Page
Obstructing the Field:
Accidental obstruction......................... 37 40
Entry in score book............................. 37 41
Obstructing ball from being caught............. 37 40
and scoring.................................... 18 23
Wilful obstruction............................. 37 40
Obstruction of Batsman in running 42 45............
On-side, Fieldsman, limitation of................. 41 43
Out, Umpire’s signal............................. 3 9
Out of his ground.............................. 29 35
Outfield, Mowing of............................ 10 15,16
Over, the:
Bowler changing ends.......................... 22 27-28
..........................
Bowler finishing over......................... 22 28
Bowler incapacitated or suspended............... 22 28
Call of “Over”................................. 22 27
Last over..................................... 17 20
No ball....................................... 22 27
Umpire miscounting............................ 22 27
Wide ball..................................... 22 27
Overthrows.................................... 19 25
Pitch, the:
Area.......................................... 7 12
Changing..................................... 7 12
Covering..................................... 11 16
Damage by players............................. 42 47,48
..................................
Maintenance................................... 10 15
Mowing...................................... 10 14-15
Non-Turf..................................... 7 12
10 16
55
Law Page
Pitch, the: (cont.)
Preparation................................. 7 12
Rolling..................................... 10 14
Selection................................... 7 12
Sweeping................................... 10 14
Watering................................... 10 15
Players:
Conduct.................................... 42 48
Nomination................................. 1 5
Number.................................... 1 5
Polishing the ball............................ 42 44
Popping Crease.............................. 9 13
Practice on the field.......................... 15 18
Result, the:
Acceptance of................................ 21 27
Correctness of............................... 21 26-27
.......................................
Draw........................................ 21 26
Statement of results.......................... 21 27
Tie......................................... 21 26
Umpires awarding match..................... 21 26
Win........................................ 21 25-26
Winning hit or extras......................... 21 27
Return Crease................................ 9 13-14
Rolling the Pitch............................. 10 14
Choice of roller............................... 10 16
Run Out...................................... 38 41
Ball played on to opposite wicket............... 38 41
Entry in score book........................... 38 41
“No balls” called.............................. 38 41
Off a Fieldsman’s Helmet...................... 38 42
Scoring of runs............................... 18 23
38 41
Which Batsman out.......................... 38 41
56
Law Page
Runners....................................... 2 6,7
Equipment................................... 2 6
Transgression of Laws......................... 2 6
Runs.......................................... 18 22
Scorers, the:
Acknowledging signals......................... 4 10
Consultation with Umpires..................... 3 10
Recording runs................................ 4 10
Scoring:
Batsman obstructing field....................... 18 23
Batsman returning to wicket he has left.......... 18 23
Batsman run out............................. 18 23
Runs........................................ 18 22
Runs scored for penalties....................... 18 23
Short runs................................... 18 22,23
Striker caught................................ 18 23
Seam, lifting the................................ 42 44
Short Pitched Balls, fast....................... 42 45-6,48
................................
Short Runs................................... 18 22,23
Umpire’s signal.............................. 3 9
Sight Screens, position of....................... 19 25
Signals, Umpire’s............................... 3 9
Acknowledgment by Scorers.................... 4 10
Start of Play.................................. 15 18
Call of play................................... 15 18
Stealing a Run, unfair......................... 42 47
Stumped...................................... 39 42
Action by Wicket-Keeper........................ 39 42
Ball rebounding from Wicket-Keeper’s person .... 39 42
Stumps........................................ 8 12
Size......................................... 8 12-13
57
Law Page
Substitutions................................ 2 5,6,7
Not to bat or bowl........................... 2 5
Objection to................................ 2 5
Sweeping the Pitch.......................... 10 14
Tea Interval................................. 16 19,20
Agreement to forego......................... 16 19
Continuation of play........................ 16 19
Innings ending or stoppage within 30 minutes of . . 16 19
Throw, Definition of......................... 24 31
Tied Match................................. 21 2l
Time Wasting............................... 42 46-7,4
..................................
Timed Out................................... 31 3<
Batsman crossing on field of play.............. 31 36
Entry in score book.......................... 31 36
Time to be added........................... 31 36
Toss, the..................................... 12 17
Trial Run-up................................ 15 18
Umpires:
and Appeals................................ 27 33,34
.................................
Appointment............................... 3 7
Attendance.................................. 3 9-10
Awarding match............................. 21 26
Change of.................................. 3 7
Changing ends.............................. 3 9
Clock of watch.............................. 3 7
and Conduct and implements.................. 3 8
Consultation with Scorers.................... 3 10
and Correctness of Scores..................... 3 9
and Disputes............................... 3 9
Exceptional circumstances......................... 3 8
58
Law Page
Umpires: (cont.)
Fair and unfair play............................ 3 8
42 44
Fitness of ground, weather and light...........__ 3 8,10
Position of..................................... 3 8-9
Signals........................................ 3
and Special conditions.......................... 3
and the Wickets................................ 3
Unfair Play..................................... 3 8
42 44-48
Batsman unfairly stealing run................... 42 47
Bowling of fast high full pitches.................. 42 46,48
Bowling of fast short pitched balls................ 42 45-46,48
Changing condition of ball...................... 42 44,48
........................
Incommoding the Striker........................ 42 44
Intervention by Umpire......................... 42 44
Lifting the seam................................ 42 44
Obstruction of Batsman in running.............. 42 45
Players’ conduct................................ 42 48
Players damaging pitch.......................... 42 47,48
Responsibility of Captains...................... 42 44
Responsibility of Umpires........................ 3 8
42 44
Time wasting.................................. 42 46-47,48
Watering the Pitch.............................. 10 15
Weather, fitness of............................... 3 8,10
Wicket Down..................................... 28 34-35
All stumps out of ground........................ 28 35
Dispensing with bails........................... 28 35
One bail off.................................... 28 35
Remaking the wicket........................... 28 35
59
Law Page
Wicket-Keeper:
Infringement of Laws by...................... 24 30
Interference by Striker........................ 40 43
Position of................................... 40 42
Restriction on actions of....................... 40 42
and Stumpings............................... 39 42
Wickets, the:
Pitching..................................... 3
8 12
Width........................................ 8 12
Wide Ball:
Adjudgement of.............................. 25 31-32
................................
Ball coming to rest in front of wicket............. 25 32
Ball not dead................................. 25 32
Not counting in over........................... 22 27
25 32-33
Out from a wide.............................. 25 32
Penalty....................................... 25 32
Revoking a call............................... 25 32
Umpire’s signal............................... 3 9
Win, Definition of.............................. 21 25-26
Women’s Cricket, Weight and size of ball........ 5 11